Thus he learned how to inflict quick and severe damage.  Also he learned the value of surprise.  White Fang knew this point.  It was a knowledge bequeathed to him directly from the hunting generation of wolves.  There was a great row that night.
He owed no allegiance to this strange and terrible god.  He had given himself to Grey Beaver, and to Grey Beaver he considered he still belonged.  But what had occurred before was repeated--with a difference.  Grey Beaver again made him fast with a thong, and in the morning turned him over to Beauty Smith.  And here was where the difference came in.
Behind him would be Mit-sah, the great whip singing in his hand.  So the dogs came to understand that when the team stopped by order, White Fang was to be let alone.  But when White Fang stopped without orders, then it was allowed them to spring upon him and destroy him if they could.  After several experiences, White Fang never stopped without orders.  But the dogs could never learn the lesson to leave him alone in camp.
Midway in the passage, the current picked up the cub and swept him downstream.  He was caught in the miniature rapid at the bottom of the pool.  Here was little chance for swimming.  The quiet water had become suddenly angry.  Sometimes he was under, sometimes on top.
He saw a weasel leaping swiftly away from him.  It was a small live thing, and he had no fear.  It tried to retreat before him.  He turned it over with his paw.  It made a queer, grating noise.
But to the cub the spectacle of her protective rage was pleasing.  He uttered a glad little cry and bounded to meet her, while the man-animals went back hastily several steps.  The she-wolf stood over against her cub, facing the men, with bristling hair, a snarl rumbling deep in her throat.  It was an exclamation of surprise.  The cub felt his mother wilting at the sound.
The puppy's name, as White Fang was afterward to hear him called, was Lip-lip.  He had had experience in puppy fights and was already something of a bully.  They half circled about each other, tentatively, snarling and bristling.  This lasted several minutes, and White Fang was beginning to enjoy it, as a sort of game.  But suddenly, with remarkable swiftness, Lip-lip leaped in, delivering a slashing snap, and leaped away again.
And not only did he outrun them, but, circling widely back on his track, he gathered in one of his exhausted pursuers.  After that he left that part of the country and journeyed over to the valley wherein he had been born.  Here, in the old lair, he encountered Kiche.  Of this litter but one remained alive when White Fang came upon the scene, and this one was not destined to live long.  Young life had little chance in such a famine.
White Fang bristled, but waited.  The strange god's foot lifted.  He was beginning the ascent.  Then it was that White Fang struck.  He gave no warning, with no snarl anticipated his own action.
But after the lynx, all fighting ceased for White Fang.  There were no more animals with which to fight--at least, there was none considered worthy of fighting with him.  So he remained on exhibition until spring, when one Tim Keenan, a faro-dealer, arrived in the land.  With him came the first bull-dog that had ever entered the Klondike.  Beauty Smith slipped the chain from his neck and stepped back.
But most potent in his education was the cuff of the master's hand, the censure of the master's voice.  They had hurt only the flesh of him; beneath the flesh the spirit had still raged, splendid and invincible.  But with the master the cuff was always too light to hurt the flesh.  It was an expression of the master's disapproval, and White Fang's spirit wilted under it.  In point of fact, the cuff was rarely administered.
He now saw it again; but it had taken upon itself a remarkable remoteness.  Also, its appearance had changed.  A great fear came upon him.  This was more of the terrible unknown.  He crouched down on the lip of the cave and gazed out on the world.
Just now he ran blindly, his own bank of the Mackenzie alone entering into his calculations.  All night he ran, blundering in the darkness into mishaps and obstacles that delayed but did not daunt.  It was the endurance of his mind that kept him going.  He had not eaten in forty hours, and he was weak with hunger.  The repeated drenchings in the icy water had likewise had their effect on him.
He felt a vacancy in him, a need for the hush and quietude of the stream and the cave in the cliff.  Life had become too populous.  There were so many of the man-animals, men, women, and children, all making noises and irritations.  And there were the dogs, ever squabbling and bickering, bursting into uproars and creating confusions.  The restful loneliness of the only life he had known was gone.
He stamped them into the snow under him in the wallowing struggle.  There was food in plenty.  There was now much resting and sleeping.  The famine was over.  There came a day, in this land of plenty, when the wolf-pack split in half and went in different directions.
He barely held his own, one leap ahead of his pursuer.  Lip-lip, excited by the chase and by the persistent nearness of his victim, forgot caution and locality.  When he remembered locality, it was too late.  Dashing at top speed around a tepee, he ran full tilt into Kiche lying at the end of her stick.  He gave one yelp of consternation, and then her punishing jaws closed upon him.
not quite satisfied with him.  Here was indubitable evidence.  White Fang had already scented it.  His god was preparing for another flight.  And since he had not taken him with him before, so, now, he could look to be left behind.
Beauty Smith had regained his feet and come over to look at White Fang.  The dog-musher, still on his knees and stooped over White Fang, calculated for a moment.  nudging White Fang with his foot.  He opened his pocket-book and counted out the bills.  Beauty Smith put his hands behind his back, refusing to touch the proffered money.
Here, in Sierra Vista, which was the name of Judge Scott's place, White Fang quickly began to make himself at home.  He had no further serious trouble with the dogs.  Had Dick had his way, they would have been good friends.  All but White Fang was averse to friendship.  All he asked of other dogs was to be let alone.
It was no longer his dog.  When the beating was over White Fang was sick.  A soft southland dog would have died under it, but not he.  His school of life had been sterner, and he was himself of sterner stuff.  He had too great vitality.
He would not go up to them.  On the other hand, instead of walking away at sight of them, he waited for them to come to him.  All this was a matter of development, and took time.  Next in his regard, after the children, was Judge Scott.  There were two reasons, possibly, for this.
But upon his way he demanded consideration.  He stood upon his right to go his way unmolested and to give trail to no dog.  He had to be taken into account, that was all.  They got out of the way, gave trail to the grown dogs, and gave up meat to them under compulsion.  They quickly learned to leave him alone, neither venturing hostile acts nor making overtures of friendliness.
But there was one lesson the dogs did learn, and that was to keep together.  White Fang was too terrible for any of them to face single- handed.  They met him with the mass-formation, otherwise he would have killed them, one by one, in a night.  As it was, he never had a chance to kill them.  At the first hint of conflict, the whole team drew together and faced him.
She did not rush him, now that her young one was safe.  Her sharp, menacing cry sent the hair bristling along his back, and he snarled warningly at her.  She came closer and closer.  The next moment she was at his throat, her teeth buried in his hair and flesh.  The weasel never relaxed her hold.
Cherokee was puzzled, too.  He had never fought before with a dog with which he could not close.  The desire to close had always been mutual.  But here was a dog that kept at a distance, dancing and dodging here and there and all about.  And when it did get its teeth into him, it did not hold on but let go instantly and darted away again.
With the first slash, Baseek's right ear was ripped into ribbons.  He was astounded at the suddenness of it.  But more things, and most grievous ones, were happening with equal suddenness.  He was knocked off his feet.  His throat was bitten.
He's all hunky with the officials.  'm, for all you can tell.  The dog-musher indicated White Fang with a backward thrust of his thumb.  The other looked at him incredulously.  The dog-musher secured a club and went over to the chained animal.
Then I had no right to   ain't had no chance yet.  He's just come through hell, an' this is the first time he's ben loose.  Give 'm a fair chance, an' if he don't   He walked over to White Fang and began talking to him gently and soothingly.  Scott shook his head and went on trying to win White Fang's confidence.  White Fang was suspicious.
In doing this they had protected both themselves and the gods whose companionship they shared.  They might be town-reared dogs, but the instinctive fear of the Wild was theirs just the same.  Not alone with their own eyes did they see the wolfish creature in the clear light of day, standing before them.  All of which served to make White Fang's days enjoyable.  If the sight of him drove these strange dogs upon him, so much the better for him, so much the worse for them.
Nevertheless, with the exception of the ones that limped, the movements of the animals were effortless and tireless.  Their stringy muscles seemed founts of inexhaustible energy.  They ran many miles that day.  They ran through the night.  And the next day found them still running.
One day a number of men gathered about the pen.  Beauty Smith entered, club in hand, and took the chain off from White Fang's neck.  When his master had gone out, White Fang turned loose and tore around the pen, trying to get at the men outside.  He was magnificently terrible.  It was all muscle, bone, and sinew-fighting flesh in the finest condition.
He smelled the meat carefully; but he did not look at it.  While he smelled it he kept his eyes on the god.  He took the meat into his mouth and swallowed it.  Still nothing happened.  The god was actually offering him another piece of meat.
Shrinking, almost shivering, he still managed to hold himself together.  It was a torment, this hand that touched him and violated his instinct.  He could not forget in a day all the evil that had been wrought him at the hands of men.  But it was the will of the god, and he strove to submit.  The hand lifted and descended again in a patting, caressing movement.
The hubbub died down.  He had never dreamed that his own kind consisted of more than One Eye, his mother, and himself.  In the same way he resented his mother being tied with a stick, even though it was done by the superior man-animals.  It savoured of the trap, of bondage.  Yet of the trap and of bondage he knew nothing.
At such times he betrayed no anger.  This was his one trouble in the running of the pack; but she had other troubles.  On her other side ran a gaunt old wolf, grizzled and marked with the scars of many battles.  He ran always on her right side.  The fact that he had but one eye, and that the left eye, might account for this.
Generation by generation, down all the generations, had this fear of the Wild been stamped into their natures.  For centuries the Wild had stood for terror and destruction.  And during all this time free licence had been theirs, from their masters, to kill the things of the Wild.  In doing this they had protected both themselves and the gods whose companionship they shared.  They might be town-reared dogs, but the instinctive fear of the Wild was theirs just the same.
They learned that it was when a steamer first tied to the bank that they had their fun.  One white man, having seen his dog, a setter, torn to pieces before his eyes, drew a revolver.  White Fang enjoyed it all.  He did not love his kind, and he was shrewd enough to escape hurt himself.  At first, the killing of the white men's dogs had been a diversion.
Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth in paragraph 1.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.  It exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life.  net/fundraising/pglaf.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification number is 64-6221541.
And since he had not taken him with him before, so, now, he could look to be left behind.  That night he lifted the long wolf-howl.  Inside the cabin the two men had just gone to bed.  There was a grunt from Weedon Scott's bunk, and a stir of blankets.  The blankets in the other bunk stirred irritably.
The thing was done thoroughly and with despatch.  Lip-lip essayed to back away, but White Fang struck him hard, shoulder to shoulder.  Lip-lip was overthrown and rolled upon his back.  White Fang's teeth drove into the scrawny throat.  There was a death-struggle, during which White Fang walked around, stiff-legged and observant.
Then, between them, the she-wolf and One Eye devoured the game which the mysterious sapling had caught for them.  For two days the she-wolf and One Eye hung about the Indian camp.  He was worried and apprehensive, yet the camp lured his mate and she was loath to depart.  They did not go far--a couple of days' journey.  The she-wolf's need to find the thing for which she searched had now become imperative.
The thing to expect of them was the unexpected, and for this he must be prepared.  He travelled very clumsily.  He ran into sticks and things.  A twig that he thought a long way off, would the next instant hit him on the nose or rake along his ribs.  There were inequalities of surface.
He bounded towards her joyously, and she met him with shrewd fangs that laid his cheek open to the bone.  He did not understand.  He backed away, bewildered and puzzled.  But it was not Kiche's fault.  A wolf-mother was not made to remember her cubs of a year or so before.
He was aware only of curiosity in all the things about him.  A squirrel, running around the base of the trunk, came full upon him, and gave him a great fright.  He cowered down and snarled.  But the squirrel was as badly scared.  It ran up the tree, and from a point of safety chattered back savagely.
But scarcely had the cheer of its light departed, than he went into camp.  With night came horror.  Not only were the starving wolves growing bolder, but lack of sleep was telling upon Henry.  He awoke once and saw in front of him, not a dozen feet away, a big grey wolf, one of the largest of the pack.  This certitude was shown by the whole pack.
Thereafter they spoke no more, though their ears were keen for the hunting-cries that continued to rise behind them.  The coffin, at the side of the fire, served for seat and table.  Henry, squatting over the fire and settling the pot of coffee with a piece of ice, nodded.  Nor did he speak till he had taken his seat on the coffin and begun to eat.  I took six fish out of the bag.
Silence would do no good.  Besides, it was not fear, but terror, that convulsed him.  But the slope grew more gradual, and its base was grass-covered.  Here the cub lost momentum.  When at last he came to a stop, he gave one last agonised yell and then a long, whimpering wail.
It had happened many times, yet each time it was as fresh a surprise as ever to him.  His mate looked at him anxiously.  But there was no danger.  He did not question it, nor puzzle over it.  Five or six miles from the lair, the stream divided, its forks going off among the mountains at a right angle.
When the beating was over White Fang was sick.  A soft southland dog would have died under it, but not he.  His school of life had been sterner, and he was himself of sterner stuff.  He had too great vitality.  His clutch on life was too strong.
The frost was in his feet, and he kept lifting first one fore- foot and then the other.  He curved his bushy tail around to cover them, and at the same time he saw a vision.  There was nothing strange about it.  Upon his inward sight was impressed a succession of memory-pictures.  He saw the camp again, the tepees, and the blaze of the fires.
Inoffensive ranchers in remote valleys were held up by armed men and compelled to identify themselves.  While the remains of Jim Hall were discovered on a dozen mountain-sides by greedy claimants for blood- money.  In the meantime the newspapers were read at Sierra Vista, not so much with interest as with anxiety.  The women were afraid.  For once, Jim Hall was right.
It moved with commingled mistrust and daring, cautiously observing the men, its attention fixed on the dogs.  One Ear strained the full length of the stick toward the intruder and whined with eagerness.  She's the decoy for the pack.  She draws out the dog an' then all  The fire crackled.  A log fell apart with a loud spluttering noise.
Don't dast tackle me so long as I got that club handy.  He's  As the man's hand approached his neck, White Fang bristled and snarled and crouched down.  Matt unsnapped the chain from the collar and stepped back.  White Fang could scarcely realise that he was free.  Immediately after such fights he had always been imprisoned again.
But he neither snapped nor sprang away.  Nearer and nearer it came.  It touched the ends of his upstanding hair.  He shrank down under it.  It followed down after him, pressing more closely against him.
Here was meat and life, and it was guarded by no mysterious fires nor flying missiles of flame.  Splay hoofs and palmated antlers they knew, and they flung their customary patience and caution to the wind.  It was a brief fight and fierce.  The big bull was beset on every side.  He ripped them open or split their skulls with shrewdly driven blows of his great hoofs.
Both noses went down to the footprints in the snow.  These footprints were very fresh.  One Eye ran ahead cautiously, his mate at his heels.  The broad pads of their feet were spread wide and in contact with the snow were like velvet.  One Eye caught sight of a dim movement of white in the midst of the white.
It was not so much White Fang's ferocity as it was his silence that unnerved the groom.  Still protecting his throat and face with his torn and bleeding arm, he tried to retreat to the barn.  And it would have gone hard with him had not Collie appeared on the scene.  As she had saved Dick's life, she now saved the groom's.  She rushed upon White Fang in frenzied wrath.
They were known as _chechaquos_, and they always wilted at the application of the name.  They made their bread with baking-powder.  All of which is neither here nor there.  The men in the fort disdained the newcomers and enjoyed seeing them come to grief.  Especially did they enjoy the havoc worked amongst the newcomers' dogs by White Fang and his disreputable gang.
It seemed to him that he was in Fort McGurry.  It was warm and comfortable, and he was playing cribbage with the Factor.  Also, it seemed to him that the fort was besieged by wolves.  And then, so strange was the dream, there was a crash.  The door was burst open.
To run down meat was to experience thrills and elations.  His rages and battles were pleasures.  Terror itself, and the mystery of the unknown, led to his living.  And there were easements and satisfactions.  They were expressions of life, and life is always happy when it is expressing itself.
He was plainly perplexed, and he came back again, pausing a dozen feet away and regarding the two men intently.  He came out with a piece of meat, which he tossed to White Fang.  He sprang away from it, and from a distance studied it suspiciously.  Major had made a spring for the meat.  At the instant his jaws closed on it, White Fang struck him.
But with the sheep-dog it was otherwise.  Being a female, she possessed no such instinct.  And so, as he abandoned his rush at her and braced himself to avoid the contact, she sprang upon him.  He snarled involuntarily as he felt her teeth in his shoulder, but beyond this made no offer to hurt her.  He backed away, stiff-legged with self-consciousness, and tried to go around her.
In his nostrils was the smell of the camp-smoke.  In his ears the camp-sounds and cries were ringing loud.  He passed out of the forest and into the moonlit open where were no shadows nor darknesses.  But no village greeted his eyes.  The village had gone away.
This was a different proposition from crouching in frozen fear while the unknown lurked just alongside.  Now the unknown had caught tight hold of him.  Silence would do no good.  Besides, it was not fear, but terror, that convulsed him.  But the slope grew more gradual, and its base was grass-covered.
Into the air he lifted his body in the spring that landed him on the strange god's back.  He clung on for a moment, long enough to drag the god over backward.  Together they crashed to the floor.  White Fang leaped clear, and, as the man struggled to rise, was in again with the slashing fangs.  Sierra Vista awoke in alarm.
And when it did get its teeth into him, it did not hold on but let go instantly and darted away again.  But White Fang could not get at the soft underside of the throat.  The bull-dog stood too short, while its massive jaws were an added protection.  White Fang darted in and out unscathed, while Cherokee's wounds increased.  Both sides of his neck and head were ripped and slashed.
And none of them knew how to fight.  As an enemy of his kind, it was in White Fang's province to fight with them.  This he did, and he quickly achieved for them a mighty contempt.  They rushed bellowing at him.  He sprang to the side.
Or again, he would be in the pen of Beauty Smith.  Outside the pen, men would be gathering, and he knew that a fight was on.  He watched the door for his antagonist to enter.  The door would open, and thrust in upon him would come the awful electric car.  A thousand times this occurred, and each time the terror it inspired was as vivid and great as ever.
Nor did he stop till he had devoured the whole brood.  Then he licked his chops in quite the same way his mother did, and began to crawl out of the bush.  He encountered a feathered whirlwind.  He was confused and blinded by the rush of it and the beat of angry wings.  He hid his head between his paws and yelped.
I don't like the looks of it.  I don't feel right, somehow.  As he dozed off he was aroused by his comrade's voice.  never like this before.  You jes' shut up now, an' go to sleep, an' you'll be all hunkydory in the mornin'.
In addition to being exhibited he was a professional fighting animal.  Usually this occurred at night, so as to avoid interference from the mounted police of the Territory.  After a few hours of waiting, when daylight had come, the audience and the dog with which he was to fight arrived.  In this manner it came about that he fought all sizes and breeds of dogs.  It was a savage land, the men were savage, and the fights were usually to the death.
At the rear limped the weak members, the very young and the very old.  At the front were the strongest.  Yet all were more like skeletons than full-bodied wolves.  Nevertheless, with the exception of the ones that limped, the movements of the animals were effortless and tireless.  Their stringy muscles seemed founts of inexhaustible energy.
It cried out with terror, at the same time snarling, and scrambled back to cool its paws in the snow.  The man sat down on his blankets in a crouching position.  His body leaned forward from the hips.  His shoulders, relaxed and drooping, and his head on his knees advertised that he had given up the struggle.  Now and again he raised his head to note the dying down of the fire.
No, White Fang was not for sale at any price.  But Beauty Smith knew the ways of Indians.  He visited Grey Beaver's camp often, and hidden under his coat was always a black bottle or so.  One of the potencies of whisky is the breeding of thirst.  Grey Beaver got the thirst.
Though he lay down in the entrance and slept, his sleep was fitful.  He kept awaking and cocking his ears at the bright world without, where the April sun was blazing across the snow.  The sun had come back, and all the awakening Northland world was calling to him.  He cast anxious glances at his mate, but she showed no desire to get up.  He looked outside, and half a dozen snow-birds fluttered across his field of vision.
Weedon Scott reading the letter down in Circle City, came upon the following:  dogs is licking him.  Wants to know what has become of you, and I don't  It was as Matt had said.  White Fang had ceased eating, lost heart, and allowed every dog of the team to thrash him.  In the cabin he lay on the floor near the stove, without interest in food, in Matt, nor in life.  He had got upon his feet, his ears cocked towards the door, and he was listening intently.
But the other kind was divided.  One portion was what his own kind killed and ate.  This portion was composed of the non-killers and the small killers.  The other portion killed and ate his own kind, or was killed and eaten by his own kind.  And out of this classification arose the law.
Every advance on his part was accompanied by a corresponding retreat on her part.  Step by step she was luring him away from the security of his human companionship.  In the meantime, Bill had bethought himself of the rifle.  Too late One Ear learned his mistake.  Before they saw the cause, the two men saw him turn and start to run back toward them.
He had not eaten in forty hours, and he was weak with hunger.  The repeated drenchings in the icy water had likewise had their effect on him.  His handsome coat was draggled.  The broad pads of his feet were bruised and bleeding.  He had begun to limp, and this limp increased with the hours.
His jaws were apart, and through them the tongue protruded, draggled and limp.  To all appearances he looked like a dog that had been strangled to death.  Beauty Smith had regained his feet and come over to look at White Fang.  The dog-musher, still on his knees and stooped over White Fang, calculated for a moment.  nudging White Fang with his foot.
The nightmare city was gone.  The car had been to him no more than a room in a house, and when he had entered it the city had been all around him.  In the interval the city had disappeared.  The roar of it no longer dinned upon his ears.  Before him was smiling country, streaming with sunshine, lazy with quietude.
They were always crawling and sprawling toward it, and being driven back from it by their mother.  It was in this way that the grey cub learned other attributes of his mother than the soft, soothing, tongue.  These were conscious actions, and were the results of his first generalisations upon the world.  Before that he had recoiled automatically from hurt, as he had crawled automatically toward the light.  After that he recoiled from hurt because he _knew_ that it was hurt.
The new-comer did not understand.  followed him into the ring.  Both men bent over the dogs.  Matt took hold of White Fang, ready to pull when Cherokee's jaws should be loosened.  This the younger man endeavoured to accomplish by clutching the bulldog's jaws in his hands and trying to spread them.
Yet he quickly worked it out that all of them belonged to the master.  And by this ascertained standard, White Fang treated them accordingly.  Thus it was with the two children.  All his life he had disliked children.  He hated and feared their hands.
And in this his brothers and sisters were one with him.  Never, in that period, did any of them crawl toward the dark corners of the back-wall.  They were always crawling and sprawling toward it, and being driven back from it by their mother.  It was in this way that the grey cub learned other attributes of his mother than the soft, soothing, tongue.  These were conscious actions, and were the results of his first generalisations upon the world.
Sierra Vista was a far vaster affair than the tepee of Grey Beaver.  There were many persons to be considered.  There was Judge Scott, and there was his wife.  There were the master's two sisters, Beth and Mary.  There was his wife, Alice, and then there were his children, Weedon and Maud, toddlers of four and six.
His method was to drive straight at the intruder, and to sink his teeth in if he could.  One result of this was to make White Fang more ferocious and indomitable, and more solitary.  The months went by, binding stronger and stronger the covenant between dog and man.  This was the ancient covenant that the first wolf that came in from the Wild entered into with man.  And, like all succeeding wolves and wild dogs that had done likewise, White Fang worked the covenant out for himself.
He went up the frozen bed of the stream, where the snow, shaded by the trees, was yet hard and crystalline.  He was gone eight hours, and he came back through the darkness hungrier than when he had started.  He had found game, but he had not caught it.  He paused at the mouth of the cave with a sudden shock of suspicion.  Faint, strange sounds came from within.
Beauty Smith had regained his feet and come over to look at White Fang.  The dog-musher, still on his knees and stooped over White Fang, calculated for a moment.  nudging White Fang with his foot.  He opened his pocket-book and counted out the bills.  Beauty Smith put his hands behind his back, refusing to touch the proffered money.
White Fang, listening to the wordy war and watching the angry gestures, knew that his act was justified.  And so it came that he learned there were gods and gods.  There were his gods, and there were other gods, and between them there was a difference.  Justice or injustice, it was all the same, he must take all things from the hands of his own gods.  But he was not compelled to take injustice from the other gods.
Collie's teeth were no longer sharp.  There was a playfulness about her nips and a gentleness that prevented them from really hurting him.  One day she led him off on a long chase through the back-pasture land into the woods.  It was the afternoon that the master was to ride, and White Fang knew it.  The horse stood saddled and waiting at the door.
Yet a bad effect was produced.  He became malignant and morose.  His temper had been savage by birth, but it became more savage under this unending persecution.  The genial, playful, puppyish side of him found little expression.  He never played and gambolled about with the other puppies of the camp.
But he sprang upon the guard one day and used his teeth on the other's throat just like any jungle animal.  After this, Jim Hall went to live in the incorrigible cell.  He lived there three years.  The cell was of iron, the floor, the walls, the roof.  He never left this cell.
Then came the day when the last bandage and the last plaster cast were taken off.  All Sierra Vista was gathered around.  The master rubbed his ears, and he crooned his love-growl.  The master's wife all the women called him the Blessed Wolf.  He tried to rise to his feet, and after several attempts fell down from weakness.
The broad pads of their feet were spread wide and in contact with the snow were like velvet.  One Eye caught sight of a dim movement of white in the midst of the white.  His sliding gait had been deceptively swift, but it was as nothing to the speed at which he now ran.  Before him was bounding the faint patch of white he had discovered.  They were running along a narrow alley flanked on either side by a growth of young spruce.
When the canoe touched the shore, White Fang lay whimpering and motionless, waiting the will of Grey Beaver.  He crawled tremblingly to his feet and stood whimpering.  At Grey Beaver's heels he limped obediently through the village to the tepee.  That night, when all was still, White Fang remembered his mother and sorrowed for her.  He sorrowed too loudly and woke up Grey Beaver, who beat him.
The next instant Weedon Scott had White Fang by the throat and was dragging him clear.  Matt helped the man to his feet.  As he arose he lowered his crossed arms, exposing the bestial face of Beauty Smith.  The dog-musher let go of him precipitately, with action similar to that of a man who has picked up live fire.  Beauty Smith blinked in the lamplight and looked about him.
Before they saw the cause, the two men saw him turn and start to run back toward them.  On the instant, the she- wolf's coyness and playfulness disappeared.  With a snarl she sprang upon One Ear.  More wolves were appearing every moment and joining in the chase.  The she-wolf was one leap behind One Ear and holding her own.
The master stopped the carriage.  But White Fang could not believe.  He looked at the master, and he looked at the dogs.  Then he looked back eagerly and questioningly at the master.  White Fang no longer hesitated.
But worse than all this, was the atmosphere in which he lived.  He was regarded as the most fearful of wild beasts, and this was borne in to him through the bars of the cage.  Every word, every cautious action, on the part of the men, impressed upon him his own terrible ferocity.  It was so much added fuel to the flame of his fierceness.  There could be but one result, and that was that his ferocity fed upon itself and increased.
This was repeated a number of times.  But there came a time when the god refused to toss it.  He kept it in his hand and steadfastly proffered it.  The meat was good meat, and White Fang was hungry.  Bit by bit, infinitely cautious, he approached the hand.
White Fang knew how to make it and when to make it.  Into his snarl he incorporated all that was vicious, malignant, and horrible.  A temporary pause, when taken off his guard, gave him the vital moment in which to think and determine his action.  But often a pause so gained lengthened out until it evolved into a complete cessation from the attack.  And before more than one of the grown dogs White Fang's snarl enabled him to beat an honourable retreat.
He was not used to fighting with that kind of dog, and he was waiting for them to bring on the real dog.  These were so many suggestions.  Also, their effect was irritating, for Cherokee began to growl, very softly, deep down in his throat.  There was a correspondence in rhythm between the growls and the movements of the man's hands.  This was not without its effect on White Fang.
For days and nights he bellowed his rage at the universe.  For weeks and months he never made a sound, in the black silence eating his very soul.  He was a man and a monstrosity, as fearful a thing of fear as ever gibbered in the visions of a maddened brain.  And then, one night, he escaped.  A heavy price of gold was upon his head.
Denied the outlet, through play, of his energies, he recoiled upon himself and developed his mental processes.  He became cunning; he had idle time in which to devote himself to thoughts of trickery.  He had to forage for himself, and he foraged well, though he was oft-times a plague to the squaws in consequence.  He was a good runner, swifter than any puppy of his size, and swifter than Lip-lip.  But he did not run his best in this chase.
In the main, so efficient a fighter had he become, he went his way unscathed.  Another advantage he possessed was that of correctly judging time and distance.  Not that he did this consciously, however.  He did not calculate such things.  It was all automatic.
It was true that they sometimes gave meat, but more often they gave hurt.  Hands were things to keep away from.  In strange villages he had encountered the hands of the children and learned that they were cruel to hurt.  Also, he had once nearly had an eye poked out by a toddling papoose.  From these experiences he became suspicious of all children.
It was lean with long-standing hunger.  It ran below its ordinary speed.  At the rear limped the weak members, the very young and the very old.  At the front were the strongest.  Yet all were more like skeletons than full-bodied wolves.
The mother ptarmigan was in a fury.  Then he became angry.  He rose up, snarling, striking out with his paws.  He sank his tiny teeth into one of the wings and pulled and tugged sturdily.  The ptarmigan struggled against him, showering blows upon him with her free wing.
And these perilous contacts from all these strange hands he must endure.  Yet this endurance he achieved.  Furthermore, he got over being awkward and self-conscious.  In a lofty way he received the attentions of the multitudes of strange gods.  With condescension he accepted their condescension.
Beauty Smith regained his feet and came toward him, sniffling and cowardly.  The new-comer did not understand.  followed him into the ring.  Both men bent over the dogs.  Matt took hold of White Fang, ready to pull when Cherokee's jaws should be loosened.
And every day thereafter found him out and ranging a wider area.  He was always a little demon of fury when he chanced upon a stray ptarmigan.  Never did he fail to respond savagely to the chatter of the squirrel he had first met on the blasted pine.  He never forgot the hawk, and its moving shadow always sent him crouching into the nearest thicket.  In the matter of meat, his luck had been all in the beginning.
What if the trail of the gods led out on that side?  It never entered his head.  But that mental power was yet in the future.  Just now he ran blindly, his own bank of the Mackenzie alone entering into his calculations.  All night he ran, blundering in the darkness into mishaps and obstacles that delayed but did not daunt.  It was the endurance of his mind that kept him going.
Sometimes he was under, sometimes on top.  At all times he was in violent motion, now being turned over or around, and again, being smashed against a rock.  And with every rock he struck, he yelped.  His progress was a series of yelps, from which might have been adduced the number of rocks he encountered.  He crawled frantically clear of the water and lay down.
But somebody had to do the cooking, and whatever else his shortcomings, Beauty Smith could cook.  This was the man that looked at White Fang, delighted in his ferocious prowess, and desired to possess him.  He made overtures to White Fang from the first.  White Fang began by ignoring him.  Later on, when the overtures became more insistent, White Fang bristled and bared his teeth and backed away.
Then he turned deliberately and took the right fork.  Half a mile up the right fork, his quick ears caught the sound of gnawing teeth.  One Eye approached carefully but hopelessly.  But he had long since learned that there was such a thing as Chance, or Opportunity, and he continued to draw near.  There was never any telling what might happen, for with live things events were somehow always happening differently.
As his eyes closed it fell away from his hand.  It seemed to him that he was in Fort McGurry.  It was warm and comfortable, and he was playing cribbage with the Factor.  Also, it seemed to him that the fort was besieged by wolves.  And then, so strange was the dream, there was a crash.
I took six fish out of the bag.  I gave one fish to each dog, an',   six fish.  One Ear didn't get no fish.  I came back to the bag afterward    Henry stopped eating to glance across the fire and count the dogs.  off across the snow, I looked in the snow an' saw its tracks.
He ripped them open or split their skulls with shrewdly driven blows of his great hoofs.  He crushed them and broke them on his large horns.  He stamped them into the snow under him in the wallowing struggle.  There was food in plenty.  There was now much resting and sleeping.
Matt followed with the lamp, and by its light they saw a man lying on his back in the snow.  His arms were folded, one above the other, across his face and throat.  Thus he was trying to shield himself from White Fang's teeth.  And there was need for it.  White Fang was in a rage, wickedly making his attack on the most vulnerable spot.
He went up the frozen bed of the stream, where the snow, shaded by the trees, was yet hard and crystalline.  He was gone eight hours, and he came back through the darkness hungrier than when he had started.  He had found game, but he had not caught it.  He paused at the mouth of the cave with a sudden shock of suspicion.  Faint, strange sounds came from within.
And different was the method of driving the dogs.  There was no fan-formation of the team.  The dogs worked in single file, one behind another, hauling on double traces.  And here, in the Klondike, the leader was indeed the leader.  The wisest as well as strongest dog was the leader, and the team obeyed him and feared him.
He carried himself with pride, as though, forsooth, he had achieved a deed praiseworthy and meritorious.  There was about him no consciousness of sin.  The master's lips tightened as he faced the disagreeable task.  Then he talked harshly to the unwitting culprit, and in his voice there was nothing but godlike wrath.  Also, he held White Fang's nose down to the slain hens, and at the same time cuffed him soundly.
Bill threw on more wood, before lighting his pipe.  He indicated the third person by a downward thrust of the thumb to the box on which they sat.  Bill opened his mouth to speak, but changed his mind.  Instead, he pointed towards the wall of darkness that pressed about them from every side.  There was no suggestion of form in the utter blackness; only could be seen a pair of eyes gleaming like live coals.
The pitch to which he was aroused was tremendous.  All the fighting blood of his breed was up in him and surging through him.  This was living, though he did not know it.  After a time, the ptarmigan ceased her struggling.  He still held her by the wing, and they lay on the ground and looked at each other.
But there was one trial in White Fang's life--Collie.  She never gave him a moment's peace.  She was not so amenable to the law as he.  She defied all efforts of the master to make her become friends with White Fang.  Ever in his ears was sounding her sharp and nervous snarl.
There was a great uproar.  Only a few seconds elapsed before he was on his feet again.  Also, he appreciated the power with which they administered the law.  Unlike any animals he had ever encountered, they did not bite nor claw.  They enforced their live strength with the power of dead things.
The snarling of his dogs was losing its efficacy.  He awoke with a start.  The she-wolf was less than a yard from him.  Mechanically, at short range, without letting go of it, he thrust a brand full into her open and snarling mouth.  But this time, before he dozed again, he tied a burning pine-knot to his right hand.
The cub could not understand.  The awe of man rushed over him again.  His instinct had been true.  His mother verified it.  She, too, rendered submission to the man- animals.
A new and incomprehensibly fairer life was dawning.  It required much thinking and endless patience on the part of Weedon Scott to accomplish this.  And on the part of White Fang it required nothing less than a revolution.  He had to ignore the urges and promptings of instinct and reason, defy experience, give the lie to life itself.  But now it was different.
He avoided tight places and always backed out of it when they bade fair to surround him.  While, as for getting him off his feet, there was no dog among them capable of doing the trick.  His feet clung to the earth with the same tenacity that he clung to life.  White Fang was bitter and implacable.  The clay of him was so moulded.
Because of this new feeling within him, he ofttimes elected discomfort and pain for the sake of his god.  _Like_ had been replaced by _love_.  And love was the plummet dropped down into the deeps of him where like had never gone.  And responsive out of his deeps had come the new thing--love.  That which was given unto him did he return.
He carried himself with pride, as though, forsooth, he had achieved a deed praiseworthy and meritorious.  There was about him no consciousness of sin.  The master's lips tightened as he faced the disagreeable task.  Then he talked harshly to the unwitting culprit, and in his voice there was nothing but godlike wrath.  Also, he held White Fang's nose down to the slain hens, and at the same time cuffed him soundly.
He cowered down and snarled.  But the squirrel was as badly scared.  It ran up the tree, and from a point of safety chattered back savagely.  Such was his confidence, that when a moose-bird impudently hopped up to him, he reached out at it with a playful paw.  The result was a sharp peck on the end of his nose that made him cower down and ki-yi.
This mother-weasel was so small and so savage.  But a portion of this knowledge was quickly to be his.  He was still whimpering when the mother-weasel reappeared.  She did not rush him, now that her young one was safe.  Her sharp, menacing cry sent the hair bristling along his back, and he snarled warningly at her.
He now became the enemy of all things, and more ferocious than ever.  To such an extent was he tormented, that he hated blindly and without the faintest spark of reason.  He hated the very wood of the pen that confined him.  And, first, last, and most of all, he hated Beauty Smith.  But Beauty Smith had a purpose in all that he did to White Fang.
Because of this new feeling within him, he ofttimes elected discomfort and pain for the sake of his god.  _Like_ had been replaced by _love_.  And love was the plummet dropped down into the deeps of him where like had never gone.  And responsive out of his deeps had come the new thing--love.  That which was given unto him did he return.
They were not prepared for his swiftness and directness, for his attack without warning.  They did not know him for what he was, a lightning-flash of slaughter.  He became an adept at fighting.  He never wasted his strength, never tussled.  He was in too quickly for that, and, if he missed, was out again too quickly.
Ducking, turning, doubling, he slid about the deck, eluding the other's efforts to capture him.  But when the love-master spoke, White Fang came to him with prompt obedience.  days of gettin' acquainted.  Matt bent over and passed his hand along White Fang's belly.  But Weedon Scott was not listening.
His progress was a series of yelps, from which might have been adduced the number of rocks he encountered.  He crawled frantically clear of the water and lay down.  He had learned some more about the world.  Water was not alive.  Also, it looked as solid as the earth, but was without any solidity at all.
But when the love-master spoke, White Fang came to him with prompt obedience.  days of gettin' acquainted.  Matt bent over and passed his hand along White Fang's belly.  But Weedon Scott was not listening.  He was thinking rapidly.
zip *******   This and all associated files of various formats will be found in: http://www.  org/dirs/9/1/910    Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will be renamed.  If you do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the rules is very easy.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.
Even the big beating given him in his puppyhood by Grey Beaver was mild compared with this.  Beauty Smith enjoyed the task.  For Beauty Smith was cruel in the way that cowards are cruel.  All life likes power, and Beauty Smith was no exception.  But Beauty Smith had not created himself, and no blame was to be attached to him.
Burning brands made them spring aside, but they no longer sprang back.  In vain he strove to drive them back.  It cried out with terror, at the same time snarling, and scrambled back to cool its paws in the snow.  The man sat down on his blankets in a crouching position.  His body leaned forward from the hips.
The only change in it that they could notice was an accession of alertness.  It still regarded them with the merciless wistfulness of hunger.  They were meat, and it was hungry; and it would like to go in and eat them if it dared.  It's got away with three of our  Henry nodded his consent.  Bill cautiously slipped the gun from under the sled-lashing.
Leather harness was on the dogs, and leather traces attached them to a sled which dragged along behind.  The sled was without runners.  It was made of stout birch-bark, and its full surface rested on the snow.  On the sled, securely lashed, was a long and narrow oblong box.  In advance of the dogs, on wide snowshoes, toiled a man.
Thus, the dog behind could never catch up with the one in front.  The faster he ran, the faster ran the one he was after, and the faster ran all the dogs.  Incidentally, the sled went faster, and thus, by cunning indirection, did man increase his mastery over the beasts.  Mit-sah resembled his father, much of whose grey wisdom he possessed.  Because he ran at the end of the longest rope, the dogs had always the view of him running away before them.
She had known better than the blundering gods.  All her suspicions were justified.  Here was the ancient marauder up to his old tricks again.  But Collie did not give over, as was her wont, after a decent interval of chastisement.  Two nights later came the act, but on a more generous scale than the master had anticipated.
But this love did not come in a day.  It began with _like_ and out of it slowly developed.  White Fang did not run away, though he was allowed to remain loose, because he liked this new god.  The lordship of man was a need of his nature.  And so, because he needed a god and because he preferred Weedon Scott to Beauty Smith, White Fang remained.
From the protection of his god's body to the protection of his god's possessions was a step, and this step he made.  What was his god's was to be defended against all the world--even to the extent of biting other gods.  Not only was such an act sacrilegious in its nature, but it was fraught with peril.  Duty rose above fear, and thieving gods learned to leave Grey Beaver's property alone.  Also, he learned that but brief time elapsed between his sounding of the alarm and Grey Beaver coming to his aid.
He, on the other hand, being the fastest-footed, was unafraid to venture anywhere.  But the pack invariably lost him.  Further he was more directly connected with the Wild than they; and he knew more of its secrets and stratagems.  This was no soil for kindliness and affection to blossom in.  Of such things he had not the faintest glimmering.
Then they came upon moose.  It was a big bull they first found.  Here was meat and life, and it was guarded by no mysterious fires nor flying missiles of flame.  Splay hoofs and palmated antlers they knew, and they flung their customary patience and caution to the wind.  It was a brief fight and fierce.
White Fang bristled, but waited.  The strange god's foot lifted.  He was beginning the ascent.  Then it was that White Fang struck.  He gave no warning, with no snarl anticipated his own action.
nudging White Fang with his foot.  He opened his pocket-book and counted out the bills.  Beauty Smith put his hands behind his back, refusing to touch the proffered money.  Beauty Smith, his hands still behind him, began to back away.  Scott sprang toward him, drawing his fist back to strike.
These were always males, and they were pressingly insistent on joining with One Eye and his mate.  One moonlight night, running through the quiet forest, One Eye suddenly halted.  His muzzle went up, his tail stiffened, and his nostrils dilated as he scented the air.  One foot also he held up, after the manner of a dog.  He was not satisfied, and he continued to smell the air, striving to understand the message borne upon it to him.
Down the frozen waterway toiled a string of wolfish dogs.  Their bristly fur was rimed with frost.  Leather harness was on the dogs, and leather traces attached them to a sled which dragged along behind.  The sled was without runners.  It was made of stout birch-bark, and its full surface rested on the snow.
He must do his work quickly and get away.  So he learnt to give no warning of his intention.  He rushed in and snapped and slashed on the instant, without notice, before his foe could prepare to meet him.  Thus he learned how to inflict quick and severe damage.  Also he learned the value of surprise.
Woven into her being was the memory of countless crimes he and his had perpetrated against her ancestry.  Not in a day nor a generation were the ravaged sheepfolds to be forgotten.  All this was a spur to her, pricking her to retaliation.  A feud, ages old, was between them, and she, for one, would see to it that he was reminded.  So Collie took advantage of her sex to pick upon White Fang and maltreat him.
It was his first battle.  He forgot all about the unknown.  He no longer was afraid of anything.  He was fighting, tearing at a live thing that was striking at him.  Also, this live thing was meat.
His body leaned forward from the hips.  His shoulders, relaxed and drooping, and his head on his knees advertised that he had given up the struggle.  Now and again he raised his head to note the dying down of the fire.  The circle of flame and coals was breaking into segments with openings in between.  These openings grew in size, the segments diminished.
It was a jealous note, and he was very careful in keeping a respectful distance.  It was not the first time in his long and successful life that this thing had happened.  It had happened many times, yet each time it was as fresh a surprise as ever to him.  His mate looked at him anxiously.  But there was no danger.
Nothing had happened.  He recollected something, dropped the burden, and trotted back to where he had left the ptarmigan.  He did not hesitate a moment.  He knew clearly what was to be done, and this he did by promptly eating the ptarmigan.  Then he returned and took up his burden.
All he had to do, when the strange dogs came ashore, was to show himself.  When they saw him they rushed for him.  It was their instinct.  Generation by generation, down all the generations, had this fear of the Wild been stamped into their natures.  For centuries the Wild had stood for terror and destruction.
But nobody else ever romped with White Fang.  He did not permit it.  He stood on his dignity, and when they attempted it, his warning snarl and bristling mane were anything but playful.  He loved with single heart and refused to cheapen himself or his love.  The master went out on horseback a great deal, and to accompany him was one of White Fang's chief duties in life.
He was pre-eminently unbeautiful.  Nature had been niggardly with him.  He was a small man to begin with; and upon his meagre frame was deposited an even more strikingly meagre head.  Its apex might be likened to a point.  Beginning here, as though regretting her parsimony, Nature had spread his features with a lavish hand.
He could not forget in a day all the evil that had been wrought him at the hands of men.  But it was the will of the god, and he strove to submit.  The hand lifted and descended again in a patting, caressing movement.  This continued, but every time the hand lifted, the hair lifted under it.  And every time the hand descended, the ears flattened down and a cavernous growl surged in his throat.
He awoke with a start.  The she-wolf was less than a yard from him.  Mechanically, at short range, without letting go of it, he thrust a brand full into her open and snarling mouth.  But this time, before he dozed again, he tied a burning pine-knot to his right hand.  His eyes were closed but few minutes when the burn of the flame on his flesh awakened him.
It still regarded them with the merciless wistfulness of hunger.  They were meat, and it was hungry; and it would like to go in and eat them if it dared.  It's got away with three of our  Henry nodded his consent.  Bill cautiously slipped the gun from under the sled-lashing.  The gun was on the way to his shoulder, but it never got there.
The circle of flame and coals was breaking into segments with openings in between.  These openings grew in size, the segments diminished.  Once he awakened, and in an opening in the circle, directly in front of him, he saw the she-wolf gazing at him.  Again he awakened, a little later, though it seemed hours to him.  A mysterious change had taken place--so mysterious a change that he was shocked wider awake.
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.  It exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life.  net/fundraising/pglaf.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification number is 64-6221541.  federal laws and your state's laws.
White Fang sprang in a rage at the throat of the offending horse, but was checked by the master's voice.  White Fang was disinclined to desert him.  The master thought of writing a note, but searched his pockets vainly for pencil and paper.  Again he commanded White Fang to go home.  The latter regarded him wistfully, started away, then returned and whined softly.
His wolfish appearance caught their eyes at once, and they pointed him out to one another.  Not one succeeded in laying a hand on him, and it was well that they did not.  White Fang soon learned that very few of these gods--not more than a dozen--lived at this place.  The white men came from off these steamers and went away on them again.  There seemed untold numbers of these white men.
He oppressed the weak, but he respected the strong.  The months passed by.  Still continued the journey of Grey Beaver.  He had come to know quite thoroughly the world in which he lived.  His outlook was bleak and materialistic.
Through the door came a low, anxious whine, like a sobbing under the breath that had just grown audible.  But this did not satisfy Weedon Scott.  The other seemed to be judging him in a non-committal sort of way.  If he didn't bankrupt me with damaged suits, the   Weedon Scott looked at him suspiciously.  The other suspicion was allayed.
His mate looked at him anxiously.  But there was no danger.  He did not question it, nor puzzle over it.  Five or six miles from the lair, the stream divided, its forks going off among the mountains at a right angle.  Here, leading up the left fork, he came upon a fresh track.
But at front and rear, unawed and indomitable, toiled the two men who were not yet dead.  Their bodies were covered with fur and soft-tanned leather.  This gave them the seeming of ghostly masques, undertakers in a spectral world at the funeral of some ghost.  They travelled on without speech, saving their breath for the work of their bodies.  On every side was the silence, pressing upon them with a tangible presence.
He had come to know quite thoroughly the world in which he lived.  His outlook was bleak and materialistic.  He had no affection for Grey Beaver.  True, he was a god, but a most savage god.  There were deeps in his nature which had never been sounded.
White Fang was furious.  He faced the boy, bristling and snarling, his sense of justice outraged.  He knew the law of forage.  All the wastage of meat, such as the frozen chips, belonged to the dog that found it.  He had done no wrong, broken no law, yet here was this boy preparing to give him a beating.
Fully a score he could count, staring hungrily at him or calmly sleeping in the snow.  They reminded him of children gathered about a spread table and awaiting permission to begin to eat.  And he was the food they were to eat!  He wondered how and when the meal would begin.  As he piled wood on the fire he discovered an appreciation of his own body which he had never felt before.  He watched his moving muscles and was interested in the cunning mechanism of his fingers.
The newcomer turned upon the crowd.  He was in a rage himself--a sane rage.  His grey eyes seemed metallic and steel-like as they flashed upon the crowd.  Beauty Smith regained his feet and came toward him, sniffling and cowardly.  The new-comer did not understand.
Always, in the beginning, before his conscious life dawned, he had crawled toward the mouth of the cave.  And in this his brothers and sisters were one with him.  Never, in that period, did any of them crawl toward the dark corners of the back-wall.  They were always crawling and sprawling toward it, and being driven back from it by their mother.  It was in this way that the grey cub learned other attributes of his mother than the soft, soothing, tongue.
But this time Beauty Smith left him tied with a stick.  One does not give up a god easily, and so with White Fang.  Grey Beaver had betrayed and forsaken him, but that had no effect upon him.  Not for nothing had he surrendered himself body and soul to Grey Beaver.  There had been no reservation on White Fang's part, and the bond was not to be broken easily.
White Fang watched the club after the manner of a caged lion watching the whip of its trainer.  Don't dast tackle me so long as I got that club handy.  He's  As the man's hand approached his neck, White Fang bristled and snarled and crouched down.  Matt unsnapped the chain from the collar and stepped back.  White Fang could scarcely realise that he was free.
White Fang leaped clear, and, as the man struggled to rise, was in again with the slashing fangs.  Sierra Vista awoke in alarm.  The noise from downstairs was as that of a score of battling fiends.  There were revolver shots.  A man's voice screamed once in horror and anguish.
He yelped in his fright.  A panic seized him, and he ran madly toward the village.  He knew an overpowering desire for the protection and companionship of man.  In his nostrils was the smell of the camp-smoke.  In his ears the camp-sounds and cries were ringing loud.
The only change in it that they could notice was an accession of alertness.  It still regarded them with the merciless wistfulness of hunger.  They were meat, and it was hungry; and it would like to go in and eat them if it dared.  It's got away with three of our  Henry nodded his consent.  Bill cautiously slipped the gun from under the sled-lashing.
He had eaten the lynx kitten.  The lynx-mother would have eaten him had she not herself been killed and eaten.  The law was being lived about him by all live things, and he himself was part and parcel of the law.  But the cub did not think in man-fashion.  He did not look at things with wide vision.
Many of them he could whip in single fight; but single fight was denied him.  The beginning of such a fight was a signal for all the young dogs in camp to come running and pitch upon him.  To keep one's feet in the midst of the hostile mass meant life, and this he learnt well.  He became cat-like in his ability to stay on his feet.  But White Fang learned to omit these preliminaries.
There could be but one ending.  Having learned to snuggle, White Fang was guilty of it often.  It was the final word.  He could not go beyond it.  The one thing of which he had always been particularly jealous was his head.
His hair was standing out all over him in tufts where her teeth had mauled.  He stood where he had arisen, opened his mouth, and broke out the long, heart-broken puppy wail.  But even this he was not allowed to complete.  In the middle of it, White Fang, rushing in, sank his teeth into Lip-lip's hind leg.  Came the day when Grey Beaver, deciding that the liability of her running away was past, released Kiche.
Then he discovered his mistake and tried to placate her.  In the meantime the rabbit danced above them in the air.  As he sank back with it between his teeth, he kept his eye on the sapling.  As before, it followed him back to earth.  He crouched down under the impending blow, his hair bristling, but his teeth still keeping tight hold of the rabbit.
They cooked for the master and washed the dishes and did other things just as Matt had done up in the Klondike.  They were, in short, appurtenances of the household.  Outside the household there was even more for White Fang to learn.  The master's domain was wide and complex, yet it had its metes and bounds.  The land itself ceased at the county road.
What of his bushwhacking and waylaying tactics, the young dogs were afraid to run by themselves.  He attacked them when he caught them alone, and they attacked him when they were bunched.  He, on the other hand, being the fastest-footed, was unafraid to venture anywhere.  But the pack invariably lost him.  Further he was more directly connected with the Wild than they; and he knew more of its secrets and stratagems.
Then I counted the dogs an' there was still six of 'em.  Bill threw on more wood, before lighting his pipe.  He indicated the third person by a downward thrust of the thumb to the box on which they sat.  Bill opened his mouth to speak, but changed his mind.  Instead, he pointed towards the wall of darkness that pressed about them from every side.
He knew laughter and the meaning of it.  And he felt shame that the man-animals should be laughing at him.  Twilight drew down and night came on, and White Fang lay by his mother's side.  His nose and tongue still hurt, but he was perplexed by a greater trouble.  He felt a vacancy in him, a need for the hush and quietude of the stream and the cave in the cliff.
In this village, after the custom of all dogs in all villages, White Fang went foraging, for food.  A boy was chopping frozen moose-meat with an axe, and the chips were flying in the snow.  White Fang, sliding by in quest of meat, stopped and began to eat the chips.  He observed the boy lay down the axe and take up a stout club.  White Fang sprang clear, just in time to escape the descending blow.
The god went on talking.  In his voice was kindness--something of which White Fang had no experience whatever.  And within him it aroused feelings which he had likewise never experienced before.  Then again came the prod of his instinct and the warning of past experience.  The gods were ever crafty, and they had unguessed ways of attaining their ends.
When they saw him they rushed for him.  It was their instinct.  Generation by generation, down all the generations, had this fear of the Wild been stamped into their natures.  For centuries the Wild had stood for terror and destruction.  And during all this time free licence had been theirs, from their masters, to kill the things of the Wild.
They half circled about each other, tentatively, snarling and bristling.  This lasted several minutes, and White Fang was beginning to enjoy it, as a sort of game.  But suddenly, with remarkable swiftness, Lip-lip leaped in, delivering a slashing snap, and leaped away again.  But Lip-lip had lived his life in camp and had fought many puppy fights.  Kiche licked White Fang soothingly with her tongue, and tried to prevail upon him to remain with her.
But if they were all mildness toward her, they were all fierceness toward one another.  The three-year-old grew too ambitious in his fierceness.  He caught the one-eyed elder on his blind side and ripped his ear into ribbons.  His lost eye and his scarred muzzle bore evidence to the nature of his experience.  He had survived too many battles to be in doubt for a moment about what to do.
It manifested itself to him as a void in his being--a hungry, aching, yearning void that clamoured to be filled.  It was a pain and an unrest; and it received easement only by the touch of the new god's presence.  At such times love was joy to him, a wild, keen- thrilling satisfaction.  White Fang was in the process of finding himself.  There was a burgeoning within him of strange feelings and unwonted impulses.
She remained always between him and the way he wanted to go.  Weedon Scott laughed.  learn many things, and it's just as well that he begins now.  He'll  The carriage drove on, and still Collie blocked White Fang's way.  Back he circled, across the drive to the other lawn, and again she headed him off.
Through the door came a low, anxious whine, like a sobbing under the breath that had just grown audible.  But this did not satisfy Weedon Scott.  The other seemed to be judging him in a non-committal sort of way.  If he didn't bankrupt me with damaged suits, the   Weedon Scott looked at him suspiciously.  The other suspicion was allayed.
White Fang's gods were always hunting animals.  The old and the weak of them died of hunger.  Also, the dogs ate one another, and also the gods ate the dogs.  The weakest and the more worthless were eaten first.  The dogs that still lived, looked on and understood.
His love partook of the nature of worship, dumb, inarticulate, a silent adoration.  He learned to adjust himself in many ways to his new mode of life.  It was borne in upon him that he must let his master's dogs alone.  This accomplished, he had little trouble with them.  They gave trail to him when he came and went or walked among them, and when he asserted his will they obeyed.
There is no getting away from it.  And so it was with White Fang.  The man-animals were gods unmistakable and unescapable.  He gave them the trail as a privilege indubitably theirs.  When they walked, he got out of their way.
She followed, running swiftly.  And then, suddenly, he turned upon her.  It was his old fighting trick.  Shoulder to shoulder, he struck her squarely.  Not only was she overthrown.
Then inside other fences were the particular domains of other gods.  He obeyed his natural impulses until they ran him counter to some law.  When this had been done a few times, he learned the law and after that observed it.  But most potent in his education was the cuff of the master's hand, the censure of the master's voice.  They had hurt only the flesh of him; beneath the flesh the spirit had still raged, splendid and invincible.
For once White Fang did not make an immediate attack.  He stood still, ears pricked forward, alert and curious, surveying the strange animal that faced him.  He had never seen such a dog before.  Tim Keenan shoved toward the centre of the circle, short and squat and ungainly.  He came to a stop and blinked across at White Fang.
White Fang's meat, an' he's dead-O.  That was to be expected.  I wouldn't   for?  You said yourself that he'd done right.  Then I had no right to   ain't had no chance yet.  He's just come through hell, an' this is the first time he's ben loose.
Weedon Scott had believed that he was quick enough to avoid any snap or slash.  Scott cried out sharply with surprise, catching his torn hand and holding it tightly in his other hand.  Matt uttered a great oath and sprang to his side.  White Fang crouched down, and backed away, bristling, showing his fangs, his eyes malignant with menace.  Now he could expect a beating as fearful as any he had received from Beauty Smith.
Danger lurked in contacts.  It was the trap, ever the trap, the fear of it lurking deep in the life of him, woven into the fibre of him.  In consequence, the strange dogs he encountered had no chance against him.  He eluded their fangs.  He got them, or got away, himself untouched in either event.
She sprang savagely at the thing that had hurt her.  Then she fell to backing away and sneezing, her nose bristling with quills like a monstrous pin-cushion.  She quit her antics, and quieted down for a long minute.  Then she sprang away, up the trail, squalling with every leap she made.  It was not until her racket had faded away in the distance and died out that One Eye ventured forth.
She rolled him off his legs so that he could not run, while she repeatedly ripped and slashed him with her fangs.  His hair was standing out all over him in tufts where her teeth had mauled.  He stood where he had arisen, opened his mouth, and broke out the long, heart-broken puppy wail.  But even this he was not allowed to complete.  In the middle of it, White Fang, rushing in, sank his teeth into Lip-lip's hind leg.
White Fang slunk into camp one evening and dropped down with a sigh of content.  The dreaded white god was not there.  He did not know what evil was threatened by those insistent hands.  He knew only that they did threaten evil of some sort, and that it was best for him to keep out of their reach.  But scarcely had he lain down when Grey Beaver staggered over to him and tied a leather thong around his neck.
At first, he had known surprise.  Then came a momentary fear, when he yelped several times to the impact of the hand.  But this was quickly followed by anger.  His free nature asserted itself, and he showed his teeth and snarled fearlessly in the face of the wrathful god.  This but served to make the god more wrathful.
He smelled it and found it so recent that he crouched swiftly, and looked in the direction in which it disappeared.  Then he turned deliberately and took the right fork.  Half a mile up the right fork, his quick ears caught the sound of gnawing teeth.  One Eye approached carefully but hopelessly.  But he had long since learned that there was such a thing as Chance, or Opportunity, and he continued to draw near.
He could get little air, and that little grew less and less under the merciless grip that ever tightened.  When he saw White Fang's eyes beginning to glaze, he knew beyond doubt that the fight was lost.  Then he broke loose.  He sprang upon White Fang and began savagely to kick him.  There were hisses from the crowd and cries of protest, but that was all.
He ate his share of meat as rapidly as he could.  Every little while, however, one dog or another would flame up in revolt and be promptly subdued.  Thus White Fang was kept in training.  He was jealous of the isolation in which he kept himself in the midst of the pack, and he fought often to maintain it.  But such fights were of brief duration.
Thereafter they spoke no more, though their ears were keen for the hunting-cries that continued to rise behind them.  The coffin, at the side of the fire, served for seat and table.  Henry, squatting over the fire and settling the pot of coffee with a piece of ice, nodded.  Nor did he speak till he had taken his seat on the coffin and begun to eat.  I took six fish out of the bag.
As they slid along, noiseless as shadows, in the moonlight, they came upon a run-way.  Both noses went down to the footprints in the snow.  These footprints were very fresh.  One Eye ran ahead cautiously, his mate at his heels.  The broad pads of their feet were spread wide and in contact with the snow were like velvet.
No harm seemed to come of it, while the noises the gods made were certainly not threatening.  At such times White Fang leaned in close against the master's legs and received reassuring pats on the head.  steps and lain down to one side of the porch, still growling and keeping a sullen watch on the intruder.  All the gods started up the steps to enter the house.  White Fang followed closely at the master's heels.
The master rubbed his ears, and he crooned his love-growl.  The master's wife all the women called him the Blessed Wolf.  He tried to rise to his feet, and after several attempts fell down from weakness.  He had lain so long that his muscles had lost their cunning, and all the strength had gone out of them.  Judge Scott surveyed them triumphantly.
When the master appeared, all other beings ceased to exist so far as White Fang was concerned.  This expression of abandon and surrender, of absolute trust, he reserved for the master alone.  In fact, he never regarded the members of the family in any other light than possessions of the love-master.  Also White Fang had early come to differentiate between the family and the servants of the household.  The latter were afraid of him, while he merely refrained from attacking them.
As for his  He did not finish his sentence.  White Fang stood before him, growling fiercely.  White Fang turned to the love-master's wife.  She screamed with fright as he seized her dress in his teeth and dragged on it till the frail fabric tore away.  By this time he had become the centre of interest.
The next moment he received a clout alongside the head that knocked him over on his side.  Then all fight fled out of him.  His puppyhood and the instinct of submission took charge of him.  He sat up on his haunches and ki-yi'd.  But the man whose hand he had bitten was angry.
All his days White Fang had foraged among the live things for food.  It did not enter his head that in the Southland it was otherwise.  But this he was to learn early in his residence in Santa Clara Valley.  White Fang's natural impulse was to eat it.  A couple of bounds, a flash of teeth and a frightened squawk, and he had scooped in the adventurous fowl.
The gods held the power of life and death over their subjects, and the gods were jealous of their power.  Life was complex in the Santa Clara Valley after the simplicities of the Northland.  There were butcher-shops where meat hung within reach.  This meat he must not touch.  There were cats at the houses the master visited that must be let alone.
He knew it as though it had taken place before his eyes.  Once, he roused with a start and hastily got the axe out from underneath the lashings.  But for some time longer he sat and brooded, the two remaining dogs crouching and trembling at his feet.  He passed a rope over his shoulder, a man-trace, and pulled with the dogs.  At the first hint of darkness he hastened to make a camp, and he saw to it that he had a generous supply of firewood.
They learned that it was when a steamer first tied to the bank that they had their fun.  One white man, having seen his dog, a setter, torn to pieces before his eyes, drew a revolver.  White Fang enjoyed it all.  He did not love his kind, and he was shrewd enough to escape hurt himself.  At first, the killing of the white men's dogs had been a diversion.
Half a dozen men were about the man who crouched in the centre of the dying fire.  They were shaking and prodding him into consciousness.  He looked at them like a drunken man and maundered in strange, sleepy speech.  she ate the dog-food.  Then she ate the dogs.
They impressed him as possessing superior power, and it is on power that godhead rests.  It was a feeling, nothing more, and yet none the less potent.  Those white gods were strong.  They possessed greater mastery over matter than the gods he had known, most powerful among which was Grey Beaver.  And yet Grey Beaver was as a child-god among these white- skinned ones.
Holding him suspended with one hand, with the other hand he proceeded to give him a beating.  And it _was_ a beating.  Every blow was shrewd to hurt; and he delivered a multitude of blows.  Varying were the emotions that surged through him.  At first, he had known surprise.
He caught the one-eyed elder on his blind side and ripped his ear into ribbons.  His lost eye and his scarred muzzle bore evidence to the nature of his experience.  He had survived too many battles to be in doubt for a moment about what to do.  The battle began fairly, but it did not end fairly.  He was beset on either side by the merciless fangs of his erstwhile comrades.
After that they threw stones no more, and White Fang understood and was satisfied.  One other experience of similar nature was his.  As a result, having learned the lesson well, White Fang was hard put whenever he passed the cross-roads saloon.  This endured for some time.  The men at the saloon even urged the dogs on to attack White Fang.
But the squirrel was as badly scared.  It ran up the tree, and from a point of safety chattered back savagely.  Such was his confidence, that when a moose-bird impudently hopped up to him, he reached out at it with a playful paw.  The result was a sharp peck on the end of his nose that made him cower down and ki-yi.  The noise he made was too much for the moose-bird, who sought safety in flight.
It was his old fighting trick.  Shoulder to shoulder, he struck her squarely.  Not only was she overthrown.  White Fang did not wait.  The way was clear, and that was all he had wanted.
White Fang, hanging limply, continued to cry.  This seemed to satisfy his master, who flung him down roughly in the bottom of the canoe.  In the meantime the canoe had drifted down the stream.  Grey Beaver picked up the paddle.  White Fang was in his way.
He walked less softly among the grown dogs; his attitude toward them was less compromising.  Not that he went out of his way looking for trouble.  But upon his way he demanded consideration.  He stood upon his right to go his way unmolested and to give trail to no dog.  He had to be taken into account, that was all.
But this was quickly followed by anger.  His free nature asserted itself, and he showed his teeth and snarled fearlessly in the face of the wrathful god.  This but served to make the god more wrathful.  The blows came faster, heavier, more shrewd to hurt.  Grey Beaver continued to beat, White Fang continued to snarl.
After a time, he left Kiche's side and crawled cautiously toward the wall of the nearest tepee.  The last few inches to the wall of the tepee were crawled with painful slowness and precaution.  The day's events had prepared him for the unknown to manifest itself in most stupendous and unthinkable ways.  At last his nose touched the canvas.  Then he smelled the strange fabric, saturated with the man-smell.
Sooner or later he would accomplish his purpose, get the grip that would win the battle.  In the meantime, he accepted all the punishment the other could deal him.  Cherokee was too squat, too close to the ground.  White Fang tried the trick once too often.  The chance came in one of his quick doublings and counter-circlings.
But endure it he must, or perish, and the life that was in him had no desire to perish out.  There was no defence for him.  If he turned upon them, Mit-sah would throw the stinging lash of the whip into his face.  Only remained to him to run away.  He could not encounter that howling horde with his tail and hind-quarters.
He sank his tiny teeth into one of the wings and pulled and tugged sturdily.  The ptarmigan struggled against him, showering blows upon him with her free wing.  It was his first battle.  He forgot all about the unknown.  He no longer was afraid of anything.
They possessed greater mastery over matter than the gods he had known, most powerful among which was Grey Beaver.  And yet Grey Beaver was as a child-god among these white- skinned ones.  To be sure, White Fang only felt these things.  He was not conscious of them.  In the first place he was very suspicious of them.
But between him and Alice, the master's wife, there existed a secret.  Each night, after Sierra Vista had gone to bed, she rose and let in White Fang to sleep in the big hall.  On one such night, while all the house slept, White Fang awoke and lay very quietly.  And very quietly he smelled the air and read the message it bore of a strange god's presence.  And to his ears came sounds of the strange god's movements.
And never did it flag in its pursuit of him.  Not that Cherokee was slow.  He could turn and whirl swiftly enough, but White Fang was never there.  Cherokee was puzzled, too.  He had never fought before with a dog with which he could not close.
He hated all things.  For days and nights he bellowed his rage at the universe.  For weeks and months he never made a sound, in the black silence eating his very soul.  He was a man and a monstrosity, as fearful a thing of fear as ever gibbered in the visions of a maddened brain.  And then, one night, he escaped.
The mere sight of Beauty Smith was sufficient to send him into transports of fury.  The last growl could never be extracted from him.  When the steamboat arrived at Dawson, White Fang went ashore.  But he still lived a public life, in a cage, surrounded by curious men.  He was given no rest.
It was their instinct.  Generation by generation, down all the generations, had this fear of the Wild been stamped into their natures.  For centuries the Wild had stood for terror and destruction.  And during all this time free licence had been theirs, from their masters, to kill the things of the Wild.  In doing this they had protected both themselves and the gods whose companionship they shared.
A squirrel, running around the base of the trunk, came full upon him, and gave him a great fright.  He cowered down and snarled.  But the squirrel was as badly scared.  It ran up the tree, and from a point of safety chattered back savagely.  Such was his confidence, that when a moose-bird impudently hopped up to him, he reached out at it with a playful paw.
His arms were folded, one above the other, across his face and throat.  Thus he was trying to shield himself from White Fang's teeth.  And there was need for it.  White Fang was in a rage, wickedly making his attack on the most vulnerable spot.  All this the two men saw in the first instant.
That night he waited for the master to return.  At midnight the chill wind that blew drove him to shelter at the rear of the cabin.  There he drowsed, only half asleep, his ears keyed for the first sound of the familiar step.  But, at two in the morning, his anxiety drove him out to the cold front stoop, where he crouched, and waited.  In the morning the door opened and Matt stepped outside.
Especially did they enjoy the havoc worked amongst the newcomers' dogs by White Fang and his disreputable gang.  When a steamer arrived, the men of the fort made it a point always to come down to the bank and see the fun.  But there was one man amongst them who particularly enjoyed the sport.  And always he had a sharp and covetous eye for White Fang.  his first name, and in general he was known in the country as Beauty Smith.
At the same time he was made aware of a sensation of hunger.  His jaws closed together.  There was a crunching of fragile bones, and warm blood ran in his mouth.  The taste of it was good.  This was meat, the same as his mother gave him, only it was alive between his teeth and therefore better.
One result of this was to make White Fang more ferocious and indomitable, and more solitary.  The months went by, binding stronger and stronger the covenant between dog and man.  This was the ancient covenant that the first wolf that came in from the Wild entered into with man.  And, like all succeeding wolves and wild dogs that had done likewise, White Fang worked the covenant out for himself.  The terms were simple.
So he went out of his way to be especially kind to the Fighting Wolf.  Each day he made it a point to caress and pet White Fang, and to do it at length.  At first suspicious and hostile, White Fang grew to like this petting.  But there was one thing that he never outgrew--his growling.  Growl he would, from the moment the petting began till it ended.
He acquired a reputation for wickedness amongst the man-animals themselves.  They did not bother to look after the causes of his conduct.  They saw only the effects, and the effects were bad.  He found himself an outcast in the midst of the populous camp.  All the young dogs followed Lip-lip's lead.
It was his own fault.  He had been careless.  He had left the cave and run down to the stream to drink.  It might have been that he took no notice because he was heavy with sleep.  (He had been out all night on the meat-trail, and had but just then awakened.
On the instant, the she- wolf's coyness and playfulness disappeared.  With a snarl she sprang upon One Ear.  More wolves were appearing every moment and joining in the chase.  The she-wolf was one leap behind One Ear and holding her own.  Gun in hand, he plunged into the underbrush that lined the side of the trail.
White Fang knew nothing about fire.  It drew him as the light, in the mouth of the cave had drawn him in his early puppyhood.  He crawled the several steps toward the flame.  He heard Grey Beaver chuckle above him, and he knew the sound was not hostile.  Then his nose touched the flame, and at the same instant his little tongue went out to it.
He became cunning; he had idle time in which to devote himself to thoughts of trickery.  He had to forage for himself, and he foraged well, though he was oft-times a plague to the squaws in consequence.  He was a good runner, swifter than any puppy of his size, and swifter than Lip-lip.  But he did not run his best in this chase.  He barely held his own, one leap ahead of his pursuer.
He was always a little demon of fury when he chanced upon a stray ptarmigan.  Never did he fail to respond savagely to the chatter of the squirrel he had first met on the blasted pine.  He never forgot the hawk, and its moving shadow always sent him crouching into the nearest thicket.  In the matter of meat, his luck had been all in the beginning.  The seven ptarmigan chicks and the baby weasel represented the sum of his killings.
This served to form a large roll in Cherokee's mouth, the fur of which well-nigh defied his teeth.  But bit by bit, whenever the chance offered, he was getting more of the loose skin and fur in his mouth.  The result was that he was slowly throttling White Fang.  The latter's breath was drawn with greater and greater difficulty as the moments went by.  It began to look as though the battle were over.
But this time Beauty Smith left him tied with a stick.  One does not give up a god easily, and so with White Fang.  Grey Beaver had betrayed and forsaken him, but that had no effect upon him.  Not for nothing had he surrendered himself body and soul to Grey Beaver.  There had been no reservation on White Fang's part, and the bond was not to be broken easily.
- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.  - You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.  Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.  If you received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with your written explanation.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth in paragraph 1.
But the slope grew more gradual, and its base was grass-covered.  Here the cub lost momentum.  When at last he came to a stop, he gave one last agonised yell and then a long, whimpering wail.  After that he sat up and gazed about him, as might the first man of the earth who landed upon Mars.  But the first man on Mars would have experienced less unfamiliarity than did he.
Grey Beaver ordered meat to be brought to him, and guarded him from the other dogs while he ate.  When December was well along, Grey Beaver went on a journey up the Mackenzie.  Mit-sah and Kloo-kooch went with him.  One sled he drove himself, drawn by dogs he had traded for or borrowed.  A second and smaller sled was driven by Mit-sah, and to this was harnessed a team of puppies.
There was a jingle of bells.  Dog-mushers' cries were heard.  Everybody, save Beauty Smith, looked apprehensively, the fear of the police strong upon them.  But they saw, up the trail, and not down, two men running with sled and dogs.  They were evidently coming down the creek from some prospecting trip.
The gods held the power of life and death over their subjects, and the gods were jealous of their power.  Life was complex in the Santa Clara Valley after the simplicities of the Northland.  There were butcher-shops where meat hung within reach.  This meat he must not touch.  There were cats at the houses the master visited that must be let alone.
After a time the she-wolf began to grow restless.  She seemed to be searching for something that she could not find.  Several times they encountered solitary wolves.  These were always males, and they were pressingly insistent on joining with One Eye and his mate.  One moonlight night, running through the quiet forest, One Eye suddenly halted.
Then all the boys attacked Mit-sah.  It was going hard with him.  Blows were raining upon him from all sides.  White Fang looked on at first.  This was an affair of the gods, and no concern of his.
Came the day when Grey Beaver, deciding that the liability of her running away was past, released Kiche.  White Fang was delighted with his mother's freedom.  White-Fang even bristled up to him and walked stiff-legged, but Lip-lip ignored the challenge.  He was no fool himself, and whatever vengeance he desired to wreak, he could wait until he caught White Fang alone.  Later on that day, Kiche and White Fang strayed into the edge of the woods next to the camp.
With a snarl she sprang upon One Ear.  More wolves were appearing every moment and joining in the chase.  The she-wolf was one leap behind One Ear and holding her own.  Gun in hand, he plunged into the underbrush that lined the side of the trail.  His intention was apparent enough.
It was the Wild, the savage, frozen-hearted Northland Wild.  But there _was_ life, abroad in the land and defiant.  Down the frozen waterway toiled a string of wolfish dogs.  Their bristly fur was rimed with frost.  Leather harness was on the dogs, and leather traces attached them to a sled which dragged along behind.
So to him the entrance of the cave was a wall--a wall of light.  As the sun was to the outside dweller, this wall was to him the sun of his world.  It attracted him as a candle attracts a moth.  He was always striving to attain it.  The life that was so swiftly expanding within him, urged him continually toward the wall of light.
Men were scurrying down the gang-plank to the shore.  Matt loosened the bandana from his own neck and started to put it around White Fang's.  Scott grasped the dog-musher's hand.  Matt paused halfway down the gang-plank.  The gang-plank was hauled in, and the _Aurora_ swung out from the bank.
Food and fire, protection and companionship, were some of the things he received from the god.  In return, he guarded the god's property, defended his body, worked for him, and obeyed him.  The possession of a god implies service.  White Fang's was a service of duty and awe, but not of love.  He did not know what love was.
They enforced their live strength with the power of dead things.  Dead things did their bidding.  To his mind this was power unusual, power inconceivable and beyond the natural, power that was godlike.  The last dog had been driven back.  The hubbub died down.
(He had been out all night on the meat-trail, and had but just then awakened.  )  And his carelessness might have been due to the familiarity of the trail to the pool.  He had travelled it often, and nothing had ever happened on it.  He went down past the blasted pine, crossed the open space, and trotted in amongst the trees.  Then, at the same instant, he saw and smelt.
White Fang himself began to grow aware of it, though in his consciousness he knew not what love was.  It manifested itself to him as a void in his being--a hungry, aching, yearning void that clamoured to be filled.  It was a pain and an unrest; and it received easement only by the touch of the new god's presence.  At such times love was joy to him, a wild, keen- thrilling satisfaction.  White Fang was in the process of finding himself.
He would go and see.  He came down a shelving bank to the stream.  He had never seen water before.  The footing looked good.  There were no inequalities of surface.
White Fang began by ignoring him.  Later on, when the overtures became more insistent, White Fang bristled and bared his teeth and backed away.  He did not like the man.  The feel of him was bad.  He sensed the evil in him, and feared the extended hand and the attempts at soft-spoken speech.
He gave no warning, with no snarl anticipated his own action.  Into the air he lifted his body in the spring that landed him on the strange god's back.  He clung on for a moment, long enough to drag the god over backward.  Together they crashed to the floor.  White Fang leaped clear, and, as the man struggled to rise, was in again with the slashing fangs.
He eluded their fangs.  He got them, or got away, himself untouched in either event.  In the natural course of things there were exceptions to this.  But these were accidents.  In the main, so efficient a fighter had he become, he went his way unscathed.
But Cherokee did not seem anxious to fight.  He turned his head and blinked at the men who shouted, at the same time wagging his stump of a tail good-naturedly.  He was not afraid, but merely lazy.  Besides, it did not seem to him that it was intended he should fight with the dog he saw before him.  He was not used to fighting with that kind of dog, and he was waiting for them to bring on the real dog.
Then he tried to be more dignified, and the master laughed harder than before.  In the end, the master laughed him out of his dignity.  He had learned to laugh.  But he never forgot himself.  Those snaps were always delivered on the empty air.
Once at the tree, he studied the surrounding forest in order to fell the tree in the direction of the most firewood.  The night was a repetition of the night before, save that the need for sleep was becoming overpowering.  The snarling of his dogs was losing its efficacy.  He awoke with a start.  The she-wolf was less than a yard from him.
It had been an irresistible attraction before ever his eyes opened and looked upon it.  Always, in the beginning, before his conscious life dawned, he had crawled toward the mouth of the cave.  And in this his brothers and sisters were one with him.  Never, in that period, did any of them crawl toward the dark corners of the back-wall.  They were always crawling and sprawling toward it, and being driven back from it by their mother.
In the old days he would have sprung upon White Fang in a fury of righteous wrath.  But now his waning powers would not permit such a course.  He bristled fiercely and looked ominously across the shin-bone at White Fang.  And right here Baseek erred.  Had he contented himself with looking fierce and ominous, all would have been well.
They had hurt only the flesh of him; beneath the flesh the spirit had still raged, splendid and invincible.  But with the master the cuff was always too light to hurt the flesh.  It was an expression of the master's disapproval, and White Fang's spirit wilted under it.  In point of fact, the cuff was rarely administered.  The master's voice was sufficient.
couple of shots into 'em, they'd be more respectful.  They come closer every night.  They could even see these forms move at times.  A sound among the dogs attracted the men's attention.  Full into the firelight, with a stealthy, sidelong movement, glided a doglike animal.
It was the masterful and incommunicable wisdom of eternity laughing at the futility of life and the effort of life.  It was the Wild, the savage, frozen-hearted Northland Wild.  But there _was_ life, abroad in the land and defiant.  Down the frozen waterway toiled a string of wolfish dogs.  Their bristly fur was rimed with frost.
His voice was soft and soothing.  In spite of the menacing hand, the voice inspired confidence.  And in spite of the assuring voice, the hand inspired distrust.  White Fang was torn by conflicting feelings, impulses.  He snarled and bristled and flattened his ears.
He made overtures to White Fang from the first.  White Fang began by ignoring him.  Later on, when the overtures became more insistent, White Fang bristled and bared his teeth and backed away.  He did not like the man.  The feel of him was bad.
Then he remembered, and, turning on the back- track, started for home, carrying the ptarmigan in his mouth.  As the track led his way, he followed, prepared to meet the maker of it at every turn of the stream.  It was the maker of the track, a large female lynx.  She was crouching as he had crouched once that day, in front of her the tight-rolled ball of quills.  Half an hour passed, an hour; and nothing happened.
And because of all this, he carried himself more boldly, with a touch of defiance that was new in him.  And in his own dim way he learned the law of meat.  There were two kinds of life--his own kind and the other kind.  His own kind included his mother and himself.  The other kind included all live things that moved.
His own kind included his mother and himself.  The other kind included all live things that moved.  But the other kind was divided.  One portion was what his own kind killed and ate.  This portion was composed of the non-killers and the small killers.
Baseek was surprised by the other's temerity and swiftness of attack.  He stood, gazing stupidly across at White Fang, the raw, red shin-bone between them.  Baseek was old, and already he had come to know the increasing valour of the dogs it had been his wont to bully.  Bitter experiences these, which, perforce, he swallowed, calling upon all his wisdom to cope with them.  In the old days he would have sprung upon White Fang in a fury of righteous wrath.
There was food in plenty.  There was now much resting and sleeping.  The famine was over.  There came a day, in this land of plenty, when the wolf-pack split in half and went in different directions.  Each day this remnant of the pack dwindled.
But growth demanded disobedience.  His mother and fear impelled him to keep away from the white wall.  Growth is life, and life is for ever destined to make for light.  Unlike any other wall with which he had had experience, this wall seemed to recede from him as he approached.  No hard surface collided with the tender little nose he thrust out tentatively before him.
They were not prepared for his swiftness and directness, for his attack without warning.  They did not know him for what he was, a lightning-flash of slaughter.  He became an adept at fighting.  He never wasted his strength, never tussled.  He was in too quickly for that, and, if he missed, was out again too quickly.
In their presence Mit-sah would give him meat and would give it to him only.  This was maddening to them.  White Fang took kindly to the work.  He had not learned to be dependent on his kind for companionship.  So he worked hard, learned discipline, and was obedient.
He sat down as before, in the same spot, several feet away.  He held out a small piece of meat.  Still the punishment delayed.  The god merely held near to his nose a piece of meat.  And about the meat there seemed nothing wrong.
Later on two Indians arrived.  But White Fang did not follow them.  The master was still in the cabin.  After a time, Matt returned.  The master came to the door and called White Fang inside.
But gods are accustomed to being obeyed, and Grey Beaver wrathfully launched a canoe in pursuit.  When he overtook White Fang, he reached down and by the nape of the neck lifted him clear of the water.  He did not deposit him at once in the bottom of the canoe.  Holding him suspended with one hand, with the other hand he proceeded to give him a beating.  And it _was_ a beating.
In all the days he had lived it had not worked so hard as on this one day.  Furthermore, he was sleepy.  He was sprawling along between some bushes, when he heard a sharp intimidating cry.  There was a flash of yellow before his eyes.  He saw a weasel leaping swiftly away from him.
They worked together more smoothly and steadily.  His was a better, far better, nervous, mental, and muscular co-ordination.  Body and brain, his was a more perfected mechanism.  Not that he was to be praised for it.  Nature had been more generous to him than to the average animal, that was all.
He had lain so long that his muscles had lost their cunning, and all the strength had gone out of them.  Judge Scott surveyed them triumphantly.  And outside he went, like a king, with all Sierra Vista about him and tending on him.  He was very weak, and when he reached the lawn he lay down and rested for a while.  White Fang looked on with a wondering eye.
White Fang watched the club after the manner of a caged lion watching the whip of its trainer.  Don't dast tackle me so long as I got that club handy.  He's  As the man's hand approached his neck, White Fang bristled and snarled and crouched down.  Matt unsnapped the chain from the collar and stepped back.  White Fang could scarcely realise that he was free.
Every blow was shrewd to hurt; and he delivered a multitude of blows.  Varying were the emotions that surged through him.  At first, he had known surprise.  Then came a momentary fear, when he yelped several times to the impact of the hand.  But this was quickly followed by anger.
His progress was marked by snarl and snap and growl.  When Mit-sah cried out his command for the team to stop, White Fang obeyed.  At first this caused trouble for the other dogs.  All of them would spring upon the hated leader only to find the tables turned.  Behind him would be Mit-sah, the great whip singing in his hand.
He looked outside, and half a dozen snow-birds fluttered across his field of vision.  He started to get up, then looked back to his mate again, and settled down and dozed.  A shrill and minute singing stole upon his heating.  Once, and twice, he sleepily brushed his nose with his paw.  There, buzzing in the air at the tip of his nose, was a lone mosquito.
He achieved a staidness, and calmness, and philosophic tolerance.  He no longer lived in a hostile environment.  Danger and hurt and death did not lurk everywhere about him.  In time, the unknown, as a thing of terror and menace ever impending, faded away.  Life was soft and easy.
But more things, and most grievous ones, were happening with equal suddenness.  He was knocked off his feet.  His throat was bitten.  While he was struggling to his feet the young dog sank teeth twice into his shoulder.  The swiftness of it was bewildering.
And, once declared against him, they found good reason to continue declared against him.  One and all, from time to time, they felt his teeth; and to his credit, he gave more than he received.  Many of them he could whip in single fight; but single fight was denied him.  The beginning of such a fight was a signal for all the young dogs in camp to come running and pitch upon him.  To keep one's feet in the midst of the hostile mass meant life, and this he learnt well.
The she-wolf brought home meat.  It was strange meat, different from any she had ever brought before.  It was a lynx kitten, partly grown, like the cub, but not so large.  And it was all for him.  Nor did he know the desperateness of her deed.
The log cabins he had known were replaced by towering buildings.  All this was the manifestation of power.  It was colossal, stunning.  White Fang was awed.  And there were so many gods!  He was made dizzy by the swarming of them.
Nearer and nearer it came.  It touched the ends of his upstanding hair.  He shrank down under it.  It followed down after him, pressing more closely against him.  Shrinking, almost shivering, he still managed to hold himself together.
But at front and rear, unawed and indomitable, toiled the two men who were not yet dead.  Their bodies were covered with fur and soft-tanned leather.  This gave them the seeming of ghostly masques, undertakers in a spectral world at the funeral of some ghost.  They travelled on without speech, saving their breath for the work of their bodies.  On every side was the silence, pressing upon them with a tangible presence.
For several minutes he was to all intents insane.  The basic life that was in him took charge of him.  The will to exist of his body surged over him.  He was dominated by this mere flesh-love of life.  All intelligence was gone.
He slowed down to an alert and mincing walk and then stopped.  He regarded her carefully and dubiously, yet desirefully.  She seemed to smile at him, showing her teeth in an ingratiating rather than a menacing way.  She moved toward him a few steps, playfully, and then halted.  One Ear drew near to her, still alert and cautious, his tail and ears in the air, his head held high.
The way was clear, and that was all he had wanted.  She took after him, never ceasing her outcry.  It was the straightaway now, and when it came to real running, White Fang could teach her things.  As he rounded the house to the _porte-cochere_, he came upon the carriage.  It had stopped, and the master was alighting.
Day was a twilight and night was a black silence.  He was in an iron tomb, buried alive.  He saw no human face, spoke to no human thing.  When his food was shoved in to him, he growled like a wild animal.  He hated all things.
It was the trap, ever the trap, the fear of it lurking deep in the life of him, woven into the fibre of him.  In consequence, the strange dogs he encountered had no chance against him.  He eluded their fangs.  He got them, or got away, himself untouched in either event.  In the natural course of things there were exceptions to this.
Danger and hurt and death did not lurk everywhere about him.  In time, the unknown, as a thing of terror and menace ever impending, faded away.  Life was soft and easy.  It flowed along smoothly, and neither fear nor foe lurked by the way.  Their only effect upon him, however, was to make him uneasy and restless without his knowing what was the matter.
On either side of his body stood his two rivals.  They were gazing at the she-wolf, who sat smiling in the snow.  But the elder leader was wise, very wise, in love even as in battle.  The younger leader turned his head to lick a wound on his shoulder.  The curve of his neck was turned toward his rival.
He had found game, but he had not caught it.  He paused at the mouth of the cave with a sudden shock of suspicion.  Faint, strange sounds came from within.  They were sounds not made by his mate, and yet they were remotely familiar.  He bellied cautiously inside and was met by a warning snarl from the she-wolf.
There was much to interest him.  Something was always happening.  There was no end to the strange things these gods did, and he was always curious to see.  Besides, he was learning how to get along with Grey Beaver.  And such a piece of meat was of value.
White Fang, sliding by in quest of meat, stopped and began to eat the chips.  He observed the boy lay down the axe and take up a stout club.  White Fang sprang clear, just in time to escape the descending blow.  There was no escape for White Fang.  The only way out was between the two tepees, and this the boy guarded.
There was something calling to him out there in the open.  His mother heard it too.  Kiche turned and slowly trotted back toward camp.  Stronger than the physical restraint of the stick was the clutch of the camp upon her.  Unseen and occultly, the gods still gripped with their power and would not let her go.
Thus he learned how to inflict quick and severe damage.  Also he learned the value of surprise.  White Fang knew this point.  It was a knowledge bequeathed to him directly from the hunting generation of wolves.  There was a great row that night.
And all the time she was making outcry and striking with her free wing, while feathers were flying like a snow-fall.  The pitch to which he was aroused was tremendous.  All the fighting blood of his breed was up in him and surging through him.  This was living, though he did not know it.  After a time, the ptarmigan ceased her struggling.
The latter were afraid of him, while he merely refrained from attacking them.  This because he considered that they were likewise possessions of the master.  Between White Fang and them existed a neutrality and no more.  They cooked for the master and washed the dishes and did other things just as Matt had done up in the Klondike.  They were, in short, appurtenances of the household.
He came to the surface, and the sweet air rushed into his open mouth.  He did not go down again.  Quite as though it had been a long-established custom of his he struck out with all his legs and began to swim.  The stream was a small one, but in the pool it widened out to a score of feet.  Midway in the passage, the current picked up the cub and swept him downstream.
He broke down and began to cry and yelp.  At last Grey Beaver withheld his hand.  White Fang, hanging limply, continued to cry.  This seemed to satisfy his master, who flung him down roughly in the bottom of the canoe.  In the meantime the canoe had drifted down the stream.
All intelligence was gone.  It was as though he had no brain.  The bull- dog did little but keep his grip.  Sometimes, and rarely, he managed to get his feet to the earth and for a moment to brace himself against White Fang.  Cherokee identified himself with his instinct.
He rubbed his eyes and looked at them more sharply.  Then he crawled back into the blankets.  Henry acknowledged receipt of the information with a grunt that slid into a snore as he drifted back into sleep.  In the morning it was Henry who awoke first and routed his companion out of bed.  Daylight came at nine o'clock.
In the middle of it, White Fang, rushing in, sank his teeth into Lip-lip's hind leg.  Came the day when Grey Beaver, deciding that the liability of her running away was past, released Kiche.  White Fang was delighted with his mother's freedom.  White-Fang even bristled up to him and walked stiff-legged, but Lip-lip ignored the challenge.  He was no fool himself, and whatever vengeance he desired to wreak, he could wait until he caught White Fang alone.
The dogs clustered together in fear, now and again snarling menacingly as a pair of eyes drew close.  Once their uproar became so loud that Bill woke up.  He got out of bed carefully, so as not to disturb the sleep of his comrade, and threw more wood on the fire.  As it began to flame up, the circle of eyes drew farther back.  He glanced casually at the huddling dogs.
The time was yet to come for independence.  In the Wild the time of a mother with her young is short; but under the dominion of man it is sometimes even shorter.  Thus it was with White Fang.  Grey Beaver was in the debt of Three Eagles.  Three Eagles was going away on a trip up the Mackenzie to the Great Slave Lake.
wouldn't stand for it.  He'll learn   She looked at White Fang, who snarled and bristled and glared malevolently.  He spoke softly to White Fang until he had quieted him, then his voice became firm.  Scott opened his arms to her, but kept his eyes on White Fang.  White Fang, bristling silently, half-crouching as he rose, sank back and watched the hostile act repeated.
His arms were folded, one above the other, across his face and throat.  Thus he was trying to shield himself from White Fang's teeth.  And there was need for it.  White Fang was in a rage, wickedly making his attack on the most vulnerable spot.  All this the two men saw in the first instant.
He had never seen such a dog before.  Tim Keenan shoved toward the centre of the circle, short and squat and ungainly.  He came to a stop and blinked across at White Fang.  But Cherokee did not seem anxious to fight.  He turned his head and blinked at the men who shouted, at the same time wagging his stump of a tail good-naturedly.
They were gazing at the she-wolf, who sat smiling in the snow.  But the elder leader was wise, very wise, in love even as in battle.  The younger leader turned his head to lick a wound on his shoulder.  The curve of his neck was turned toward his rival.  With his one eye the elder saw the opportunity.
But Matt's foot had already started on its way to kick White Fang.  There was a leap, a flash of teeth, a sharp exclamation.  White Fang, snarling fiercely, scrambled backward for several yards, while Matt stooped and investigated his leg.  undercloths, and the growing stain of red.  The dog-musher surveyed the stricken dog.
He was beset on either side by the merciless fangs of his erstwhile comrades.  Forgotten were the days they had hunted together, the game they had pulled down, the famine they had suffered.  That business was a thing of the past.  The business of love was at hand--ever a sterner and crueller business than that of food-getting.  And in the meanwhile, the she-wolf, the cause of it all, sat down contentedly on her haunches and watched.
There were deeps in his nature which had never been sounded.  So White Fang knew nothing of the heaven a man's hand might contain for him.  Besides, he did not like the hands of the man-animals.  He was suspicious of them.  It was true that they sometimes gave meat, but more often they gave hurt.
It was a feeling, nothing more, and yet none the less potent.  Those white gods were strong.  They possessed greater mastery over matter than the gods he had known, most powerful among which was Grey Beaver.  And yet Grey Beaver was as a child-god among these white- skinned ones.  To be sure, White Fang only felt these things.
And there were so many gods!  He was made dizzy by the swarming of them.  The thunder of the streets smote upon his ears.  He was bewildered by the tremendous and endless rush and movement of things.  He was put into a baggage-car by the master, chained in a corner in the midst of heaped trunks and valises.  And here, in this inferno of luggage, was White Fang deserted by the master.
At such times White Fang leaned in close against the master's legs and received reassuring pats on the head.  steps and lain down to one side of the porch, still growling and keeping a sullen watch on the intruder.  All the gods started up the steps to enter the house.  White Fang followed closely at the master's heels.  Dick, on the porch, growled, and White Fang, on the steps, bristled and growled back.
He was a man and a monstrosity, as fearful a thing of fear as ever gibbered in the visions of a maddened brain.  And then, one night, he escaped.  A heavy price of gold was upon his head.  Avaricious farmers hunted him with shot-guns.  His blood might pay off a mortgage or send a son to college.
In the meantime he would wait and see.  But the god made no hostile movement, and went on calmly talking.  But the god talked on interminably.  He talked to White Fang as White Fang had never been talked to before.  He talked softly and soothingly, with a gentleness that somehow, somewhere, touched White Fang.
On the sled, securely lashed, was a long and narrow oblong box.  In advance of the dogs, on wide snowshoes, toiled a man.  At the rear of the sled toiled a second man.  It is not the way of the Wild to like movement.  Life is an offence to it, for life is movement; and the Wild aims always to destroy movement.
The master thought of writing a note, but searched his pockets vainly for pencil and paper.  Again he commanded White Fang to go home.  The latter regarded him wistfully, started away, then returned and whined softly.  The master talked to him gently but seriously, and he cocked his ears, and listened with painful intentness.  the remainder of the master's language, he knew it was his will that he should go home.
It was going hard with him.  Blows were raining upon him from all sides.  White Fang looked on at first.  This was an affair of the gods, and no concern of his.  Then he realised that this was Mit-sah, one of his own particular gods, who was being maltreated.
It so outraged him and upset him that for hours he would behave like a demon.  And woe to the dog that at such times ran foul of him.  He knew the law too well to take it out of Grey Beaver; behind Grey Beaver were a club and godhead.  In the third year of his life there came a great famine to the Mackenzie Indians.  In the summer the fish failed.
Again, and this time with purpose, did Grey Beaver kick him.  White Fang did not repeat his attack on the foot.  He had learned another lesson of his bondage.  That was evidently the crime of crimes, the one offence there was no condoning nor overlooking.  When the canoe touched the shore, White Fang lay whimpering and motionless, waiting the will of Grey Beaver.
White Fang, hanging limply, continued to cry.  This seemed to satisfy his master, who flung him down roughly in the bottom of the canoe.  In the meantime the canoe had drifted down the stream.  Grey Beaver picked up the paddle.  White Fang was in his way.
The day's events had prepared him for the unknown to manifest itself in most stupendous and unthinkable ways.  At last his nose touched the canvas.  Then he smelled the strange fabric, saturated with the man-smell.  He closed on the canvas with his teeth and gave a gentle tug.  Nothing happened, though the adjacent portions of the tepee moved.
He had neither whip nor club nor weapon.  Nor was his uninjured hand behind his back hiding something.  He sat down as before, in the same spot, several feet away.  He held out a small piece of meat.  Still the punishment delayed.
She sniffed noses with him, and even condescended to leap about and frisk and play with him in quite puppyish fashion.  And he, for all his grey years and sage experience, behaved quite as puppyishly and even a little more foolishly.  Forgotten already were the vanquished rivals and the love-tale red-written on the snow.  Forgotten, save once, when old One Eye stopped for a moment to lick his stiffening wounds.  After that they ran side by side, like good friends who have come to an understanding.
Nor, until well out of sight, did he stop to lick his bleeding wounds.  The effect on White Fang was to give him a greater faith in himself, and a greater pride.  He walked less softly among the grown dogs; his attitude toward them was less compromising.  Not that he went out of his way looking for trouble.  But upon his way he demanded consideration.
Still nothing happened.  The god was actually offering him another piece of meat.  Again he refused to take it from the hand, and again it was tossed to him.  This was repeated a number of times.  But there came a time when the god refused to toss it.
He became cunning; he had idle time in which to devote himself to thoughts of trickery.  He had to forage for himself, and he foraged well, though he was oft-times a plague to the squaws in consequence.  He was a good runner, swifter than any puppy of his size, and swifter than Lip-lip.  But he did not run his best in this chase.  He barely held his own, one leap ahead of his pursuer.
He was obeying the will of the gods.  And then, one day, again out in the back-pasture, he saw Dick start a jackrabbit and run it.  The master himself was looking on and did not interfere.  Nay, he encouraged White Fang to join in the chase.  And thus he learned that there was no taboo on jackrabbits.
He snarled and bristled and flattened his ears.  But he neither snapped nor sprang away.  Nearer and nearer it came.  It touched the ends of his upstanding hair.  He shrank down under it.
But something lacked.  Perhaps it was from excess.  Perhaps the jaw was too large.  At any rate, it was a lie.  Beauty Smith was known far and wide as the weakest of weak-kneed and snivelling cowards.
Justice or injustice, it was all the same, he must take all things from the hands of his own gods.  But he was not compelled to take injustice from the other gods.  It was his privilege to resent it with his teeth.  And this also was a law of the gods.  Before the day was out, White Fang was to learn more about this law.
Also, their effect was irritating, for Cherokee began to growl, very softly, deep down in his throat.  There was a correspondence in rhythm between the growls and the movements of the man's hands.  This was not without its effect on White Fang.  The hair began to rise on his neck and across the shoulders.  Tim Keenan gave a final shove forward and stepped back again.
His mother heard it too.  Kiche turned and slowly trotted back toward camp.  Stronger than the physical restraint of the stick was the clutch of the camp upon her.  Unseen and occultly, the gods still gripped with their power and would not let her go.  White Fang sat down in the shadow of a birch and whimpered softly.
Or again, he would be in the pen of Beauty Smith.  Outside the pen, men would be gathering, and he knew that a fight was on.  He watched the door for his antagonist to enter.  The door would open, and thrust in upon him would come the awful electric car.  A thousand times this occurred, and each time the terror it inspired was as vivid and great as ever.
Into the air he lifted his body in the spring that landed him on the strange god's back.  He clung on for a moment, long enough to drag the god over backward.  Together they crashed to the floor.  White Fang leaped clear, and, as the man struggled to rise, was in again with the slashing fangs.  Sierra Vista awoke in alarm.
He merely classified the things that hurt and the things that did not hurt.  It remained to him a white wall of light.  Once, lying awake, he heard a strange sound in the white wall.  The hair bristled upon the grey cub's back, but it bristled silently.  But fear was accompanied by another instinct--that of concealment.
White Fang stood before him, growling fiercely.  White Fang turned to the love-master's wife.  She screamed with fright as he seized her dress in his teeth and dragged on it till the frail fabric tore away.  By this time he had become the centre of interest.  He had ceased from his growling and stood, head up, looking into their faces.
He knew an overpowering desire for the protection and companionship of man.  In his nostrils was the smell of the camp-smoke.  In his ears the camp-sounds and cries were ringing loud.  He passed out of the forest and into the moonlit open where were no shadows nor darknesses.  But no village greeted his eyes.
He darted in low and closed with his fangs.  It was a long, ripping slash, and deep as well.  His teeth, in passing, burst the wall of the great vein of the throat.  Then he leaped clear.  The young leader snarled terribly, but his snarl broke midmost into a tickling cough.
But here was a dog that kept at a distance, dancing and dodging here and there and all about.  And when it did get its teeth into him, it did not hold on but let go instantly and darted away again.  But White Fang could not get at the soft underside of the throat.  The bull-dog stood too short, while its massive jaws were an added protection.  White Fang darted in and out unscathed, while Cherokee's wounds increased.
But after the lynx, all fighting ceased for White Fang.  There were no more animals with which to fight--at least, there was none considered worthy of fighting with him.  So he remained on exhibition until spring, when one Tim Keenan, a faro-dealer, arrived in the land.  With him came the first bull-dog that had ever entered the Klondike.  Beauty Smith slipped the chain from his neck and stepped back.
They had hair instead of fur, and a few had very little hair at that.  And none of them knew how to fight.  As an enemy of his kind, it was in White Fang's province to fight with them.  This he did, and he quickly achieved for them a mighty contempt.  They rushed bellowing at him.
He fought from sheer joy, finding in it an expression of much that he felt and that otherwise was without speech.  There could be but one ending.  Having learned to snuggle, White Fang was guilty of it often.  It was the final word.  He could not go beyond it.
Then he discovered his mistake and tried to placate her.  In the meantime the rabbit danced above them in the air.  As he sank back with it between his teeth, he kept his eye on the sapling.  As before, it followed him back to earth.  He crouched down under the impending blow, his hair bristling, but his teeth still keeping tight hold of the rabbit.
It was a deer-hound rushing upon him.  White Fang tried to face it.  But he was going too fast, and the hound was too close.  The master was running up, but was too far away; and it was Collie that saved the hound's life.  The next moment the master arrived, and with one hand held White Fang, while the father called off the dogs.
Danger and hurt and death did not lurk everywhere about him.  In time, the unknown, as a thing of terror and menace ever impending, faded away.  Life was soft and easy.  It flowed along smoothly, and neither fear nor foe lurked by the way.  Their only effect upon him, however, was to make him uneasy and restless without his knowing what was the matter.
After that, the she-wolf in her hunting avoided the left fork.  Never, in his brief cave-life, had he encountered anything of which to be afraid.  Yet fear was in him.  It had come down to him from a remote ancestry through a thousand thousand lives.  Fear!--that legacy of the Wild which no animal may escape nor exchange for pottage.
White Fang ceased only when he had tired himself out.  He could do nothing, and he could not understand.  Never, in all his fighting, had this thing happened.  The dogs he had fought with did not fight that way.  With them it was snap and slash and get away, snap and slash and get away.
White Fang watched him.  He notched the stick at each end and in the notches fastened strings of raw-hide.  One string he tied around the throat of Kiche.  Then he led her to a small pine, around which he tied the other string.  White Fang followed and lay down beside her.
The battle began fairly, but it did not end fairly.  He was beset on either side by the merciless fangs of his erstwhile comrades.  Forgotten were the days they had hunted together, the game they had pulled down, the famine they had suffered.  That business was a thing of the past.  The business of love was at hand--ever a sterner and crueller business than that of food-getting.
The broad pads of their feet were spread wide and in contact with the snow were like velvet.  One Eye caught sight of a dim movement of white in the midst of the white.  His sliding gait had been deceptively swift, but it was as nothing to the speed at which he now ran.  Before him was bounding the faint patch of white he had discovered.  They were running along a narrow alley flanked on either side by a growth of young spruce.
Then, between them, mother and cub, they ate the blood-drinker, and after that went back to the cave and slept.  The cub's development was rapid.  He rested for two days, and then ventured forth from the cave again.  But on this trip he did not get lost.  When he grew tired, he found his way back to the cave and slept.
The cub received a clout on the other side of his head.  Whereupon he sat up and ki-yi'd louder than ever.  The four Indians laughed more loudly, while even the man who had been bitten began to laugh.  They surrounded the cub and laughed at him, while he wailed out his terror and his hurt.  In the midst of it, he heard something.
Kiche licked White Fang soothingly with her tongue, and tried to prevail upon him to remain with her.  But his curiosity was rampant, and several minutes later he was venturing forth on a new quest.  White Fang came near to him and watched.  Grey Beaver made mouth-noises which White Fang interpreted as not hostile, so he came still nearer.  Women and children were carrying more sticks and branches to Grey Beaver.
Hunger he had known; and when he could not appease his hunger he had felt restriction.  These limitations and restraints were laws.  To be obedient to them was to escape hurt and make for happiness.  He did not reason the question out in this man fashion.  He merely classified the things that hurt and the things that did not hurt.
If ever a creature was the enemy of its kind, White Fang was that creature.  He asked no quarter, gave none.  He walked boldly about the camp, inflicting punishment in the night for what he had suffered in the day.  In the time before he was made leader of the team, the pack had learned to get out of his way.  But now it was different.
Then she fell to backing away and sneezing, her nose bristling with quills like a monstrous pin-cushion.  She quit her antics, and quieted down for a long minute.  Then she sprang away, up the trail, squalling with every leap she made.  It was not until her racket had faded away in the distance and died out that One Eye ventured forth.  The porcupine met his approach with a furious squealing and a clashing of its long teeth.
He ran back to her, licked her face, and ran on again.  And still she did not move.  There was something calling to him out there in the open.  His mother heard it too.  Kiche turned and slowly trotted back toward camp.
A club might have stopped White Fang, but not a whip.  In consequence, his forearm was ripped open to the bone.  The man was badly frightened.  It was not so much White Fang's ferocity as it was his silence that unnerved the groom.  Still protecting his throat and face with his torn and bleeding arm, he tried to retreat to the barn.
They called themselves Sour-doughs, and took great pride in so classifying themselves.  For other men, new in the land, they felt nothing but disdain.  The men who came ashore from the steamers were newcomers.  They were known as _chechaquos_, and they always wilted at the application of the name.  They made their bread with baking-powder.
It manifested itself to him as a void in his being--a hungry, aching, yearning void that clamoured to be filled.  It was a pain and an unrest; and it received easement only by the touch of the new god's presence.  At such times love was joy to him, a wild, keen- thrilling satisfaction.  White Fang was in the process of finding himself.  There was a burgeoning within him of strange feelings and unwonted impulses.
He obeyed his natural impulses until they ran him counter to some law.  When this had been done a few times, he learned the law and after that observed it.  But most potent in his education was the cuff of the master's hand, the censure of the master's voice.  They had hurt only the flesh of him; beneath the flesh the spirit had still raged, splendid and invincible.  But with the master the cuff was always too light to hurt the flesh.
Dawn came, and daylight.  The fire was burning low.  The fuel had run out, and there was need to get more.  The man attempted to step out of his circle of flame, but the wolves surged to meet him.  Burning brands made them spring aside, but they no longer sprang back.
The master thought of writing a note, but searched his pockets vainly for pencil and paper.  Again he commanded White Fang to go home.  The latter regarded him wistfully, started away, then returned and whined softly.  The master talked to him gently but seriously, and he cocked his ears, and listened with painful intentness.  the remainder of the master's language, he knew it was his will that he should go home.
It was in the air.  White Fang sensed the coming calamity, even before there was tangible evidence of it.  In vague ways it was borne in upon him that a change was impending.  He knew not how nor why, yet he got his feel of the oncoming event from the gods themselves.  Weedon Scott listened.
Also, its appearance had changed.  A great fear came upon him.  This was more of the terrible unknown.  He crouched down on the lip of the cave and gazed out on the world.  He was very much afraid.
There had been no useless gnawing.  The thong was cut across, diagonally, almost as clean as though done by a knife.  White Fang looked up at the fort, at the same time bristling and growling.  Then he turned and trotted back to Grey Beaver's camp.  He owed no allegiance to this strange and terrible god.
White Fang trembled, waiting for the punishment to fall upon him.  There was a movement of the hand above him.  He cringed involuntarily under the expected blow.  He stole a glance upward.  Grey Beaver ordered meat to be brought to him, and guarded him from the other dogs while he ate.
He had got for himself a hoof and part of the shin-bone, to which quite a bit of meat was attached.  Before he knew what he was doing, he had slashed the intruder twice and sprung clear.  Baseek was surprised by the other's temerity and swiftness of attack.  He stood, gazing stupidly across at White Fang, the raw, red shin-bone between them.  Baseek was old, and already he had come to know the increasing valour of the dogs it had been his wont to bully.
All the gods started up the steps to enter the house.  White Fang followed closely at the master's heels.  Dick, on the porch, growled, and White Fang, on the steps, bristled and growled back.  The elder Scott looked incredulously, first at White Fang, then at Dick, and finally at his son.  Here, in Sierra Vista, which was the name of Judge Scott's place, White Fang quickly began to make himself at home.
He slept long hours and dreamed much, and through his mind passed an unending pageant of Northland visions.  All the ghosts of the past arose and were with him.  He lived again all his days with Beauty Smith and the fights he had fought.  At such times he whimpered and snarled in his sleep, and they that looked on said that his dreams were bad.  It was the same when he challenged the hawk down out of the sky.
Nevertheless, he ran with his head even with the shoulder of his one-eyed elder.  Sometimes, however, he dropped cautiously and slowly behind and edged in between the old leader and the she-wolf.  This was doubly resented, even triply resented.  When she snarled her displeasure, the old leader would whirl on the three-year-old.  Sometimes she whirled with him.
Its nose was to the trail, and it trotted with a peculiar, sliding, effortless gait.  The dogs had lain down in the snow, and he walked past them to join his partner in the sled.  After a searching scrutiny, the animal trotted forward a few steps.  This it repeated several times, till it was a short hundred yards away.  It paused, head up, close by a clump of spruce trees, and with sight and scent studied the outfit of the watching men.
Once their uproar became so loud that Bill woke up.  He got out of bed carefully, so as not to disturb the sleep of his comrade, and threw more wood on the fire.  As it began to flame up, the circle of eyes drew farther back.  He glanced casually at the huddling dogs.  He rubbed his eyes and looked at them more sharply.
He bled freely, but showed no signs of being disconcerted.  In that moment White Fang was in upon him and out, in passing ripping his trimmed remnant of an ear.  White Fang still danced on, dodging and doubling, leaping in and out, and ever inflicting damage.  And still the bull-dog, with grim certitude, toiled after him.  Sooner or later he would accomplish his purpose, get the grip that would win the battle.
His throat was bitten.  While he was struggling to his feet the young dog sank teeth twice into his shoulder.  The swiftness of it was bewildering.  He made a futile rush at White Fang, clipping the empty air with an outraged snap.  The next moment his nose was laid open, and he was staggering backward away from the meat.
As an enemy of his kind, it was in White Fang's province to fight with them.  This he did, and he quickly achieved for them a mighty contempt.  They rushed bellowing at him.  He sprang to the side.  White Fang was wise.
He had not learned to be dependent on his kind for companionship.  So he worked hard, learned discipline, and was obedient.  Faithfulness and willingness characterised his toil.  A companionship did exist between White Fang and the other dogs, but it was one of warfare and enmity.  He had never learned to play with them.
In the same way, he came to tolerate Matt--as a possession of his master.  His master rarely fed him.  Matt it was who tried to put him into the harness and make him haul sled with the other dogs.  It was not until Weedon Scott put the harness on White Fang and worked him, that he understood.  Different from the Mackenzie toboggans were the Klondike sleds with runners under them.
A wild scream of fear and anguish hastened them.  Matt followed with the lamp, and by its light they saw a man lying on his back in the snow.  His arms were folded, one above the other, across his face and throat.  Thus he was trying to shield himself from White Fang's teeth.  And there was need for it.
After this, Jim Hall went to live in the incorrigible cell.  He lived there three years.  The cell was of iron, the floor, the walls, the roof.  He never left this cell.  He never saw the sky nor the sunshine.
It was the beginning of the end for White Fang--the ending of the old life and the reign of hate.  A new and incomprehensibly fairer life was dawning.  It required much thinking and endless patience on the part of Weedon Scott to accomplish this.  And on the part of White Fang it required nothing less than a revolution.  He had to ignore the urges and promptings of instinct and reason, defy experience, give the lie to life itself.
The result was a sharp peck on the end of his nose that made him cower down and ki-yi.  The noise he made was too much for the moose-bird, who sought safety in flight.  But the cub was learning.  His misty little mind had already made an unconscious classification.  There were live things and things not alive.
They were known as _chechaquos_, and they always wilted at the application of the name.  They made their bread with baking-powder.  All of which is neither here nor there.  The men in the fort disdained the newcomers and enjoyed seeing them come to grief.  Especially did they enjoy the havoc worked amongst the newcomers' dogs by White Fang and his disreputable gang.
Twenty feet away towered a huge dead spruce.  Once at the tree, he studied the surrounding forest in order to fell the tree in the direction of the most firewood.  The night was a repetition of the night before, save that the need for sleep was becoming overpowering.  The snarling of his dogs was losing its efficacy.  He awoke with a start.
White Fang sprang to his feet and tore wildly around, trying to shake off the bull-dog's body.  It made him frantic, this clinging, dragging weight.  It bound his movements, restricted his freedom.  It was like the trap, and all his instinct resented it and revolted against it.  For several minutes he was to all intents insane.
Half a mile up the right fork, his quick ears caught the sound of gnawing teeth.  One Eye approached carefully but hopelessly.  But he had long since learned that there was such a thing as Chance, or Opportunity, and he continued to draw near.  There was never any telling what might happen, for with live things events were somehow always happening differently.  The porcupine rolled itself into a ball, radiating long, sharp needles in all directions that defied attack.
He was magnificently terrible.  It was all muscle, bone, and sinew-fighting flesh in the finest condition.  The door of the pen was being opened again.  Something unusual was happening.  The door was opened wider.
White Fang emerged from the car.  The nightmare city was gone.  The car had been to him no more than a room in a house, and when he had entered it the city had been all around him.  In the interval the city had disappeared.  The roar of it no longer dinned upon his ears.
'm, for all you can tell.  The dog-musher indicated White Fang with a backward thrust of his thumb.  The other looked at him incredulously.  The dog-musher secured a club and went over to the chained animal.  White Fang watched the club after the manner of a caged lion watching the whip of its trainer.
Another advantage he possessed was that of correctly judging time and distance.  Not that he did this consciously, however.  He did not calculate such things.  It was all automatic.  His eyes saw correctly, and the nerves carried the vision correctly to his brain.
It is not the way of the Wild to like movement.  Life is an offence to it, for life is movement; and the Wild aims always to destroy movement.  But at front and rear, unawed and indomitable, toiled the two men who were not yet dead.  Their bodies were covered with fur and soft-tanned leather.  This gave them the seeming of ghostly masques, undertakers in a spectral world at the funeral of some ghost.
The young leader snarled terribly, but his snarl broke midmost into a tickling cough.  And all the while the she-wolf sat on her haunches and smiled.  To those that survived it was not tragedy, but realisation and achievement.  When the young leader lay in the snow and moved no more, One Eye stalked over to the she-wolf.  His carriage was one of mingled triumph and caution.
There was a jingle of bells.  Dog-mushers' cries were heard.  Everybody, save Beauty Smith, looked apprehensively, the fear of the police strong upon them.  But they saw, up the trail, and not down, two men running with sled and dogs.  They were evidently coming down the creek from some prospecting trip.
Little opportunity was given White Fang to see all this.  It was between him and the master, cutting him off.  White Fang snarled no warning, but his hair bristled as he made his silent and deadly rush.  This rush was never completed.  It was a female, and the law of his kind thrust a barrier between.
But it was not altogether an unhappy bondage.  There was much to interest him.  Something was always happening.  There was no end to the strange things these gods did, and he was always curious to see.  Besides, he was learning how to get along with Grey Beaver.
Life was soft and easy.  It flowed along smoothly, and neither fear nor foe lurked by the way.  Their only effect upon him, however, was to make him uneasy and restless without his knowing what was the matter.  White Fang had never been very demonstrative.  Beyond his snuggling and the throwing of a crooning note into his love-growl, he had no way of expressing his love.
It was an expression  One night, not long after the return, Scott and Matt sat at a game of of snarling without.  They looked at each other as they started to rise to their feet.  A wild scream of fear and anguish hastened them.  Matt followed with the lamp, and by its light they saw a man lying on his back in the snow.  His arms were folded, one above the other, across his face and throat.
The hands of society are harsh, and this man was a striking sample of its handiwork.  In San Quentin prison he had proved incorrigible.  Punishment failed to break his spirit.  He could die dumb-mad and fighting to the last, but he could not live and be beaten.  It was during Jim Hall's third term in prison that he encountered a guard that was almost as great a beast as he.
In his nostrils was the smell of the camp-smoke.  In his ears the camp-sounds and cries were ringing loud.  He passed out of the forest and into the moonlit open where were no shadows nor darknesses.  But no village greeted his eyes.  The village had gone away.
They were shaking and prodding him into consciousness.  He looked at them like a drunken man and maundered in strange, sleepy speech.  she ate the dog-food.  Then she ate the dogs.  An' after that  roughly.
He could not help it.  This faithfulness was a quality of the clay that composed him.  After the beating, White Fang was dragged back to the fort.  But this time Beauty Smith left him tied with a stick.  One does not give up a god easily, and so with White Fang.
White Fang went wild with rage.  He called up his reserves of strength, and gained his feet.  The basic life of him dominated him again, and his intelligence fled before the will of his flesh to live.  Shouts of of his tail.  But the clamour of approval did not distract him.
Unseen and occultly, the gods still gripped with their power and would not let her go.  White Fang sat down in the shadow of a birch and whimpered softly.  All the hours of his short life he had depended upon her.  The time was yet to come for independence.  In the Wild the time of a mother with her young is short; but under the dominion of man it is sometimes even shorter.
He had never dreamed that his own kind consisted of more than One Eye, his mother, and himself.  In the same way he resented his mother being tied with a stick, even though it was done by the superior man-animals.  It savoured of the trap, of bondage.  Yet of the trap and of bondage he knew nothing.  Freedom to roam and run and lie down at will, had been his heritage; and here it was being infringed upon.
His brain worked in dim ways.  Yet his conclusions were as sharp and distinct as those achieved by men.  He had a method of accepting things, without questioning the why and wherefore.  In reality, this was the act of classification.  He was never disturbed over why a thing happened.
To SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state visit http://www.  laws alone swamp our small staff.  Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation methods and addresses.  To donate, please visit: http://www.  net/fundraising/donate   Section 5.
In the Wild the time of a mother with her young is short; but under the dominion of man it is sometimes even shorter.  Thus it was with White Fang.  Grey Beaver was in the debt of Three Eagles.  Three Eagles was going away on a trip up the Mackenzie to the Great Slave Lake.  A strip of scarlet cloth, a bearskin, twenty cartridges, and Kiche, went to pay the debt.
There were many persons to be considered.  There was Judge Scott, and there was his wife.  There were the master's two sisters, Beth and Mary.  There was his wife, Alice, and then there were his children, Weedon and Maud, toddlers of four and six.  Yet he quickly worked it out that all of them belonged to the master.
It bound his movements, restricted his freedom.  It was like the trap, and all his instinct resented it and revolted against it.  For several minutes he was to all intents insane.  The basic life that was in him took charge of him.  The will to exist of his body surged over him.
He sat down beside White Fang, holding the end of the thong in his hand.  An hour of this passed, when the vibrations of feet in contact with the ground foreran the one who approached.  White Fang heard it first, and he was bristling with recognition while Grey Beaver still nodded stupidly.  Beauty Smith strode into camp and stood over White Fang.  He snarled softly up at the thing of fear, watching keenly the deportment of the hands.
The master rubbed his ears, and he crooned his love-growl.  The master's wife all the women called him the Blessed Wolf.  He tried to rise to his feet, and after several attempts fell down from weakness.  He had lain so long that his muscles had lost their cunning, and all the strength had gone out of them.  Judge Scott surveyed them triumphantly.
He never saw the sky nor the sunshine.  Day was a twilight and night was a black silence.  He was in an iron tomb, buried alive.  He saw no human face, spoke to no human thing.  When his food was shoved in to him, he growled like a wild animal.
He went up the frozen bed of the stream, where the snow, shaded by the trees, was yet hard and crystalline.  He was gone eight hours, and he came back through the darkness hungrier than when he had started.  He had found game, but he had not caught it.  He paused at the mouth of the cave with a sudden shock of suspicion.  Faint, strange sounds came from within.
This White Fang quickly discovered by mixing with those that came ashore with their masters.  They were irregular shapes and sizes.  Some were short-legged--too short; others were long-legged--too long.  They had hair instead of fur, and a few had very little hair at that.  And none of them knew how to fight.
The cub felt his mother wilting at the sound.  The cub could not understand.  The awe of man rushed over him again.  His instinct had been true.  His mother verified it.
They looked upon him as legitimate prey, and as legitimate prey he looked upon them.  And not for nothing had his puppyhood been made bitter by the persecution of Lip-lip and the whole puppy pack.  It might have been otherwise, and he would then have been otherwise.  But these things had not been so.  A small number of white men lived in Fort Yukon.
He had grown stronger and wiser, and more confident.  Also, he was desperate.  So he sat on his haunches, conspicuously in an open space, and challenged the hawk down out of the sky.  For he knew that there, floating in the blue above him, was meat, the meat his stomach yearned after so insistently.  The she-wolf brought home meat.
Before he knew what he was doing, he had slashed the intruder twice and sprung clear.  Baseek was surprised by the other's temerity and swiftness of attack.  He stood, gazing stupidly across at White Fang, the raw, red shin-bone between them.  Baseek was old, and already he had come to know the increasing valour of the dogs it had been his wont to bully.  Bitter experiences these, which, perforce, he swallowed, calling upon all his wisdom to cope with them.
This was living, though he did not know it.  After a time, the ptarmigan ceased her struggling.  He still held her by the wing, and they lay on the ground and looked at each other.  He tried to growl threateningly, ferociously.  She pecked on his nose, which by now, what of previous adventures was sore.
He was in a panic of terror.  The unknown had caught him at last.  It had gripped savagely hold of him and was about to wreak upon him some terrific hurt.  Growth was now routed by fear, and he ki-yi'd like any frightened puppy.  The unknown bore him on he knew not to what frightful hurt, and he yelped and ki-yi'd unceasingly.
The coffin, at the side of the fire, served for seat and table.  Henry, squatting over the fire and settling the pot of coffee with a piece of ice, nodded.  Nor did he speak till he had taken his seat on the coffin and begun to eat.  I took six fish out of the bag.  I gave one fish to each dog, an',   six fish.
To those that survived it was not tragedy, but realisation and achievement.  When the young leader lay in the snow and moved no more, One Eye stalked over to the she-wolf.  His carriage was one of mingled triumph and caution.  For the first time she met him with a kindly manner.  She sniffed noses with him, and even condescended to leap about and frisk and play with him in quite puppyish fashion.
Instead, he pointed towards the wall of darkness that pressed about them from every side.  There was no suggestion of form in the utter blackness; only could be seen a pair of eyes gleaming like live coals.  Henry indicated with his head a second pair, and a third.  A circle of the gleaming eyes had drawn about their camp.  Now and again a pair of eyes moved, or disappeared to appear again a moment later.
It became his chief delight in life, as it became White Fang's chief torment.  But the effect upon White Fang was not to cow him.  Though he suffered most of the damage and was always defeated, his spirit remained unsubdued.  Yet a bad effect was produced.  He became malignant and morose.
His world was very small.  But he had early discovered that one wall of his world was different from the rest.  This was the mouth of the cave and the source of light.  It had been an irresistible attraction before ever his eyes opened and looked upon it.  Always, in the beginning, before his conscious life dawned, he had crawled toward the mouth of the cave.
Then he perceived that they were very little, and he became bolder.  He placed his paw on one, and its movements were accelerated.  This was a source of enjoyment to him.  He picked it up in his mouth.  It struggled and tickled his tongue.
And there was a smell in the air of fish.  The famine was gone.  He came out boldly from the forest and trotted into camp straight to Grey Beaver's tepee.  It was about this time that the newspapers were full of the daring escape of a convict from San Quentin prison.  He was a ferocious man.
The feel of him was bad.  He sensed the evil in him, and feared the extended hand and the attempts at soft-spoken speech.  Because of all this, he hated the man.  With the simpler creatures, good and bad are things simply understood.  The good stands for all things that bring easement and satisfaction and surcease from pain.
Out in the back-pasture, a quail could flutter up under his nose unharmed.  All tense and trembling with eagerness and desire, he mastered his instinct and stood still.  He was obeying the will of the gods.  And then, one day, again out in the back-pasture, he saw Dick start a jackrabbit and run it.  The master himself was looking on and did not interfere.
Besides, it was a position of such utter helplessness that White Fang's whole nature revolted against it.  He could do nothing to defend himself.  If this man- animal intended harm, White Fang knew that he could not escape it.  This growl he could not suppress; nor did the man-animal resent it by giving him a blow on the head.  After a time, White Fang heard strange noises approaching.
Quite as though it had been a long-established custom of his he struck out with all his legs and began to swim.  The stream was a small one, but in the pool it widened out to a score of feet.  Midway in the passage, the current picked up the cub and swept him downstream.  He was caught in the miniature rapid at the bottom of the pool.  Here was little chance for swimming.
But Collie did not give over, as was her wont, after a decent interval of chastisement.  Two nights later came the act, but on a more generous scale than the master had anticipated.  White Fang had observed closely the chicken-yards and the habits of the chickens.  In the night-time, after they had gone to roost, he climbed to the top of a pile of newly hauled lumber.  From there he gained the roof of a chicken-house, passed over the ridgepole and dropped to the ground inside.
Even in the daylight he did not dare leave the fire to chop fresh wood.  Twenty feet away towered a huge dead spruce.  Once at the tree, he studied the surrounding forest in order to fell the tree in the direction of the most firewood.  The night was a repetition of the night before, save that the need for sleep was becoming overpowering.  The snarling of his dogs was losing its efficacy.
They've ate the leather offen both ends.  They're damn hungry,  before, but I've gone through a whole lot worse an' kept my health.  The day was like all the days.  Light came at nine o'clock.  An hour later, taking advantage of the cut-offs around which the sled had to go, Bill arrived.
All tense and trembling with eagerness and desire, he mastered his instinct and stood still.  He was obeying the will of the gods.  And then, one day, again out in the back-pasture, he saw Dick start a jackrabbit and run it.  The master himself was looking on and did not interfere.  Nay, he encouraged White Fang to join in the chase.
White Fang was very wise.  But his fellows grew wise in their own way; and in this White Fang grew wise with them.  They learned that it was when a steamer first tied to the bank that they had their fun.  One white man, having seen his dog, a setter, torn to pieces before his eyes, drew a revolver.  White Fang enjoyed it all.
He must be nursed as you would nurse a human being, a sick child.  And don't forget what I told you about  White Fang received the nursing.  And White Fang won out on the one chance in ten thousand denied him by the surgeon.  The latter was not to be censured for his misjudgment.  Compared with White Fang, they were frail and flabby, and clutched life without any strength in their grip.
In order to discover the necessary area, Nature had given him an enormous prognathous jaw.  It was wide and heavy, and protruded outward and down until it seemed to rest on his chest.  Possibly this appearance was due to the weariness of the slender neck, unable properly to support so great a burden.  This jaw gave the impression of ferocious determination.  But something lacked.
For him to attack her would require nothing less than a violation of his instinct.  But with the sheep-dog it was otherwise.  Being a female, she possessed no such instinct.  And so, as he abandoned his rush at her and braced himself to avoid the contact, she sprang upon him.  He snarled involuntarily as he felt her teeth in his shoulder, but beyond this made no offer to hurt her.
When he appeared amongst them, there was always a squabble.  His progress was marked by snarl and snap and growl.  When Mit-sah cried out his command for the team to stop, White Fang obeyed.  At first this caused trouble for the other dogs.  All of them would spring upon the hated leader only to find the tables turned.
There was a burgeoning within him of strange feelings and unwonted impulses.  His old code of conduct was changing.  But now it was different.  Because of this new feeling within him, he ofttimes elected discomfort and pain for the sake of his god.  _Like_ had been replaced by _love_.
She's the decoy for the pack.  She draws out the dog an' then all  The fire crackled.  A log fell apart with a loud spluttering noise.  At the sound of it the strange animal leaped back into the darkness.  over 'on Little Stick.
The unknown had caught him at last.  It had gripped savagely hold of him and was about to wreak upon him some terrific hurt.  Growth was now routed by fear, and he ki-yi'd like any frightened puppy.  The unknown bore him on he knew not to what frightful hurt, and he yelped and ki-yi'd unceasingly.  This was a different proposition from crouching in frozen fear while the unknown lurked just alongside.
From wincing he went to whimpering.  He tried to back away from her, oblivious to the fact that by his hold on her he dragged her after him.  A rain of pecks fell on his ill-used nose.  But as he lay there, suddenly there came to him a feeling as of something terrible impending.  The unknown with all its terrors rushed upon him, and he shrank back instinctively into the shelter of the bush.
Morning found the man haggard and worn, wide-eyed from want of sleep.  He did not dare travel until dark.  He received it as a sign.  The days were growing longer.  The sun was returning.
There was a grunt from Weedon Scott's bunk, and a stir of blankets.  The blankets in the other bunk stirred irritably.  not quite sure whether or not the other had snickered.  The next day White Fang's anxiety and restlessness were even more pronounced.  He dogged his master's heels whenever he left the cabin, and haunted the front stoop when he remained inside.
He caught sight of White Fang and terror rushed into his face.  At the same moment Matt noticed two objects lying in the snow.  Weedon Scott saw and nodded.  Not a word was spoken.  The dog-musher laid his hand on Beauty Smith's shoulder and faced him to the right about.
The lordship of man was a need of his nature.  And so, because he needed a god and because he preferred Weedon Scott to Beauty Smith, White Fang remained.  In acknowledgment of fealty, he proceeded to take upon himself the guardianship of his master's property.  It was a matter of principle and conscience.  He felt that the ill done White Fang was a debt incurred by man and that it must be paid.
They ran many miles that day.  They ran through the night.  And the next day found them still running.  They were running over the surface of a world frozen and dead.  They alone moved through the vast inertness.
Then he discovered it.  The wolves were gone.  Remained only the trampled snow to show how closely they had pressed him.  There were cries of men, and churn of sleds, the creaking of harnesses, and the eager whimpering of straining dogs.  Four sleds pulled in from the river bed to the camp among the trees.
Denied their usual food-supply, weakened by hunger, they fell upon and devoured one another.  Only the strong survived.  White Fang's gods were always hunting animals.  The old and the weak of them died of hunger.  Also, the dogs ate one another, and also the gods ate the dogs.
It had gripped savagely hold of him and was about to wreak upon him some terrific hurt.  Growth was now routed by fear, and he ki-yi'd like any frightened puppy.  The unknown bore him on he knew not to what frightful hurt, and he yelped and ki-yi'd unceasingly.  This was a different proposition from crouching in frozen fear while the unknown lurked just alongside.  Now the unknown had caught tight hold of him.
They might laugh among themselves about anything they pleased except himself, and he did not mind.  But the moment laughter was turned upon him he would fly into a most terrible rage.  Grave, dignified, sombre, a laugh made him frantic to ridiculousness.  It so outraged him and upset him that for hours he would behave like a demon.  And woe to the dog that at such times ran foul of him.
Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email business@pglaf.  net/about/contact  For additional contact information: Dr.  Newby Chief Executive and Director gbnewby@pglaf.  Many small donations ($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the IRS.  We do not solicit donations in locations where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.
It touched the ends of his upstanding hair.  He shrank down under it.  It followed down after him, pressing more closely against him.  Shrinking, almost shivering, he still managed to hold himself together.  It was a torment, this hand that touched him and violated his instinct.
But the god made no hostile movement, and went on calmly talking.  But the god talked on interminably.  He talked to White Fang as White Fang had never been talked to before.  He talked softly and soothingly, with a gentleness that somehow, somewhere, touched White Fang.  In spite of himself and all the pricking warnings of his instinct, White Fang began to have confidence in this god.
And White Fang just as bitterly hated them back.  Being sled-leader was anything but gratifying to him.  But endure it he must, or perish, and the life that was in him had no desire to perish out.  There was no defence for him.  If he turned upon them, Mit-sah would throw the stinging lash of the whip into his face.
They've ate the leather offen both ends.  They're damn hungry,  before, but I've gone through a whole lot worse an' kept my health.  The day was like all the days.  Light came at nine o'clock.  An hour later, taking advantage of the cut-offs around which the sled had to go, Bill arrived.
There was a death-struggle, during which White Fang walked around, stiff-legged and observant.  Then he resumed his course and trotted on along the base of the bluff.  He had been over this ground before, when it was bare, but now a village occupied it.  Still hidden amongst the trees, he paused to study the situation.  Sights and sounds and scents were familiar to him.
He tried to rise to his feet, and after several attempts fell down from weakness.  He had lain so long that his muscles had lost their cunning, and all the strength had gone out of them.  Judge Scott surveyed them triumphantly.  And outside he went, like a king, with all Sierra Vista about him and tending on him.  He was very weak, and when he reached the lawn he lay down and rested for a while.
In the summer the fish failed.  In the winter the cariboo forsook their accustomed track.  Moose were scarce, the rabbits almost disappeared, hunting and preying animals perished.  Denied their usual food-supply, weakened by hunger, they fell upon and devoured one another.  Only the strong survived.
It was then that the white men rushed in, visiting their wrath heavily on the pack, while White Fang went free.  White Fang was very wise.  But his fellows grew wise in their own way; and in this White Fang grew wise with them.  They learned that it was when a steamer first tied to the bank that they had their fun.  One white man, having seen his dog, a setter, torn to pieces before his eyes, drew a revolver.
In the meantime, he accepted all the punishment the other could deal him.  Cherokee was too squat, too close to the ground.  White Fang tried the trick once too often.  The chance came in one of his quick doublings and counter-circlings.  He caught Cherokee with head turned away as he whirled more slowly.
Also a low growl rumbled in his throat as warning that he was not to be trifled with.  He ate the meat, and nothing happened.  Piece by piece, he ate all the meat, and nothing happened.  Still the punishment delayed.  He licked his chops and waited.
This laughter was uproarious and scornful, and at the same time the god pointed his finger derisively at White Fang.  At such times reason fled from White Fang, and in his transports of rage he was even more mad than Beauty Smith.  Formerly, White Fang had been merely the enemy of his kind, withal a ferocious enemy.  He now became the enemy of all things, and more ferocious than ever.  To such an extent was he tormented, that he hated blindly and without the faintest spark of reason.
White Fang knew this point.  It was a knowledge bequeathed to him directly from the hunting generation of wolves.  There was a great row that night.  White Fang became hated by man and dog.  During this period of his development he never knew a moment's security.
When he overtook White Fang, he reached down and by the nape of the neck lifted him clear of the water.  He did not deposit him at once in the bottom of the canoe.  Holding him suspended with one hand, with the other hand he proceeded to give him a beating.  And it _was_ a beating.  Every blow was shrewd to hurt; and he delivered a multitude of blows.
But the world now seemed changed.  And because of all this, he carried himself more boldly, with a touch of defiance that was new in him.  And in his own dim way he learned the law of meat.  There were two kinds of life--his own kind and the other kind.  His own kind included his mother and himself.
And still she did not move.  There was something calling to him out there in the open.  His mother heard it too.  Kiche turned and slowly trotted back toward camp.  Stronger than the physical restraint of the stick was the clutch of the camp upon her.
Later, when he had grown more formidable, he wanted to eat the hawk.  He had eaten the lynx kitten.  The lynx-mother would have eaten him had she not herself been killed and eaten.  The law was being lived about him by all live things, and he himself was part and parcel of the law.  But the cub did not think in man-fashion.
never like this before.  You jes' shut up now, an' go to sleep, an' you'll be all hunkydory in the mornin'.  Your stomach's sour, that's  The men slept, breathing heavily, side by side, under the one covering.  The fire died down, and the gleaming eyes drew closer the circle they had flung about the camp.  The dogs clustered together in fear, now and again snarling menacingly as a pair of eyes drew close.
Scott cried out sharply with surprise, catching his torn hand and holding it tightly in his other hand.  Matt uttered a great oath and sprang to his side.  White Fang crouched down, and backed away, bristling, showing his fangs, his eyes malignant with menace.  Now he could expect a beating as fearful as any he had received from Beauty Smith.  Matt had dashed into the cabin and come out with a rifle.
This he did, and he quickly achieved for them a mighty contempt.  They rushed bellowing at him.  He sprang to the side.  White Fang was wise.  He had long since learned that the gods were made angry when their dogs were killed.
When she snarled her displeasure, the old leader would whirl on the three-year-old.  Sometimes she whirled with him.  And sometimes the young leader on the left whirled, too.  This confusion in the front of the moving pack always caused confusion in the rear.  But the situation of the pack was desperate.
He could feel the pricking and stinging of the old anger as it strove to rise up in him, but it strove against love.  He could not be angry; yet he had to do something.  At first he was dignified, and the master laughed the harder.  Then he tried to be more dignified, and the master laughed harder than before.  In the end, the master laughed him out of his dignity.
She was looking at the man, and for some time he returned her look.  There was nothing threatening about her.  She looked at him merely with a great wistfulness, but he knew it to be the wistfulness of an equally great hunger.  He was the food, and the sight of him excited in her the gustatory sensations.  Her mouth opened, the saliva drooled forth, and she licked her chops with the pleasure of anticipation.
It was against the law, and he had learned it.  Then the master took him into the chicken-yards.  He obeyed the impulse, but was checked by the master's voice.  They continued in the yards for half an hour.  Thus it was he learned the law, and ere he left the domain of the chickens, he had learned to ignore their existence.
He did not know what to do, it was all so unprecedented.  He took the precaution to sheer off from the two watching gods, and walked carefully to the corner of the cabin.  He was plainly perplexed, and he came back again, pausing a dozen feet away and regarding the two men intently.  He came out with a piece of meat, which he tossed to White Fang.  He sprang away from it, and from a distance studied it suspiciously.
Their stringy muscles seemed founts of inexhaustible energy.  They ran many miles that day.  They ran through the night.  And the next day found them still running.  They were running over the surface of a world frozen and dead.
Later on that day, Kiche and White Fang strayed into the edge of the woods next to the camp.  He had led his mother there, step by step, and now when she stopped, he tried to inveigle her farther.  The stream, the lair, and the quiet woods were calling to him, and he wanted her to come.  He ran on a few steps, stopped, and looked back.  He whined pleadingly, and scurried playfully in and out of the underbrush.
If the sight of him drove these strange dogs upon him, so much the better for him, so much the worse for them.  They looked upon him as legitimate prey, and as legitimate prey he looked upon them.  And not for nothing had his puppyhood been made bitter by the persecution of Lip-lip and the whole puppy pack.  It might have been otherwise, and he would then have been otherwise.  But these things had not been so.
And in this his brothers and sisters were one with him.  Never, in that period, did any of them crawl toward the dark corners of the back-wall.  They were always crawling and sprawling toward it, and being driven back from it by their mother.  It was in this way that the grey cub learned other attributes of his mother than the soft, soothing, tongue.  These were conscious actions, and were the results of his first generalisations upon the world.
After that they threw stones no more, and White Fang understood and was satisfied.  One other experience of similar nature was his.  As a result, having learned the lesson well, White Fang was hard put whenever he passed the cross-roads saloon.  This endured for some time.  The men at the saloon even urged the dogs on to attack White Fang.
But the cub was learning.  His misty little mind had already made an unconscious classification.  There were live things and things not alive.  Also, he must watch out for the live things.  The thing to expect of them was the unexpected, and for this he must be prepared.
But a still greater cunning lurked in the recesses of the Indian mind.  To give point to unending pursuit of the leader, Mit-sah favoured him over the other dogs.  These favours aroused in them jealousy and hatred.  In their presence Mit-sah would give him meat and would give it to him only.  This was maddening to them.
White Fang did not give the alarm by barking.  His method was to drive straight at the intruder, and to sink his teeth in if he could.  One result of this was to make White Fang more ferocious and indomitable, and more solitary.  The months went by, binding stronger and stronger the covenant between dog and man.  This was the ancient covenant that the first wolf that came in from the Wild entered into with man.
He could not be satisfied with less, as Matt learned after much inconvenience and trouble.  Thus he was on duty all the time, ever vigilant and faithful, the most valuable of all the dogs.  state that you was a wise guy all right when you paid the price you did for that dog.  Without warning, the love-master disappeared.  There had been warning, but White Fang was unversed in such things and did not understand the packing of a grip.
The time was yet to come for independence.  In the Wild the time of a mother with her young is short; but under the dominion of man it is sometimes even shorter.  Thus it was with White Fang.  Grey Beaver was in the debt of Three Eagles.  Three Eagles was going away on a trip up the Mackenzie to the Great Slave Lake.
It crushed them with the weight of unending vastness and unalterable decree.  An hour went by, and a second hour.  The pale light of the short sunless day was beginning to fade, when a faint far cry arose on the still air.  It might have been a lost soul wailing, had it not been invested with a certain sad fierceness and hungry eagerness.  The front man turned his head until his eyes met the eyes of the man behind.
Then a huge dog was thrust inside, and the door was slammed shut behind him.  Here was some thing, not wood nor iron, upon which to wreak his hate.  He leaped in with a flash of fangs that ripped down the side of the mastiff's neck.  The mastiff shook his head, growled hoarsely, and plunged at White Fang.  There was no hope for the mastiff from the first.
His muzzle went up, his tail stiffened, and his nostrils dilated as he scented the air.  One foot also he held up, after the manner of a dog.  He was not satisfied, and he continued to smell the air, striving to understand the message borne upon it to him.  One careless sniff had satisfied his mate, and she trotted on to reassure him.  She crept out cautiously on the edge of a large open space in the midst of the trees.
The different lines were rapidly approaching a point.  All too quickly, far more quickly than he had expected, it happened.  He heard a shot, then two shots, in rapid succession, and he knew that Bill's ammunition was gone.  Then he heard a great outcry of snarls and yelps.  He recognised One Ear's yell of pain and terror, and he heard a wolf-cry that bespoke a stricken animal.
For centuries the Wild had stood for terror and destruction.  And during all this time free licence had been theirs, from their masters, to kill the things of the Wild.  In doing this they had protected both themselves and the gods whose companionship they shared.  They might be town-reared dogs, but the instinctive fear of the Wild was theirs just the same.  Not alone with their own eyes did they see the wolfish creature in the clear light of day, standing before them.
He tried to sniff noses with her, but she retreated playfully and coyly.  Every advance on his part was accompanied by a corresponding retreat on her part.  Step by step she was luring him away from the security of his human companionship.  In the meantime, Bill had bethought himself of the rifle.  Too late One Ear learned his mistake.
Not only was she overthrown.  White Fang did not wait.  The way was clear, and that was all he had wanted.  She took after him, never ceasing her outcry.  It was the straightaway now, and when it came to real running, White Fang could teach her things.
The god was actually offering him another piece of meat.  Again he refused to take it from the hand, and again it was tossed to him.  This was repeated a number of times.  But there came a time when the god refused to toss it.  He kept it in his hand and steadfastly proffered it.
The quiet water had become suddenly angry.  Sometimes he was under, sometimes on top.  At all times he was in violent motion, now being turned over or around, and again, being smashed against a rock.  And with every rock he struck, he yelped.  His progress was a series of yelps, from which might have been adduced the number of rocks he encountered.
There was nothing to do, nothing to see nor hear.  They strained to catch some interruption of the silence and immobility of nature.  They were appalled by inaction and by the feel of something terrible impending.  He gave a great start of fright.  A colossal and formless something was rushing across the field of his vision.
The teeth of one had closed upon his arm.  Then began a fire fight.  But it could not last long.  With a flaming brand in each hand, he sprang to the edge of the fire.  The wolves had been driven back.
He knew clearly what was to be done, and this he did by promptly eating the ptarmigan.  Then he returned and took up his burden.  Her instinctive fear of the father of her progeny was toning down.  He was different from his brothers and sisters.  He was the one little grey cub of the litter.
These men had been long in the country.  They called themselves Sour-doughs, and took great pride in so classifying themselves.  For other men, new in the land, they felt nothing but disdain.  The men who came ashore from the steamers were newcomers.  They were known as _chechaquos_, and they always wilted at the application of the name.
Otherwise he ignored them.  They got out of his way when he came along; nor did the boldest of them ever dare to rob him of his meat.  On the contrary, they devoured their own meat hurriedly, for fear that he would take it away from them.  White Fang knew the law well: _to oppress the weak and obey the strong_.  He ate his share of meat as rapidly as he could.
Mechanically, at short range, without letting go of it, he thrust a brand full into her open and snarling mouth.  But this time, before he dozed again, he tied a burning pine-knot to his right hand.  His eyes were closed but few minutes when the burn of the flame on his flesh awakened him.  For several hours he adhered to this programme.  All worked well, but there came a time when he fastened the pine- knot insecurely.
He had learned to get along without her.  Her meaning was forgotten.  There was no place for her in his scheme of things, as there was no place for him in hers.  And White Fang allowed himself to be driven away.  This was a female of his kind, and it was a law of his kind that the males must not fight the females.
When he broke through into the ring, Beauty Smith was just in the act of delivering another kick.  All his weight was on one foot, and he was in a state of unstable equilibrium.  At that moment the newcomer's fist landed a smashing blow full in his face.  The newcomer turned upon the crowd.  He was in a rage himself--a sane rage.
But the rose-colour swiftly faded.  He straightened up in time to see a dim form disappearing across the snow into the shelter of the dark.  That's what's ailin' you.  Henry leaped out of the blankets and to the dogs.  And so was recorded the second epitaph in two days.
But Collie did not give over, as was her wont, after a decent interval of chastisement.  Two nights later came the act, but on a more generous scale than the master had anticipated.  White Fang had observed closely the chicken-yards and the habits of the chickens.  In the night-time, after they had gone to roost, he climbed to the top of a pile of newly hauled lumber.  From there he gained the roof of a chicken-house, passed over the ridgepole and dropped to the ground inside.
One cannot violate the promptings of one's nature without having that nature recoil upon itself.  And so with White Fang.  If ever a creature was the enemy of its kind, White Fang was that creature.  He asked no quarter, gave none.  He walked boldly about the camp, inflicting punishment in the night for what he had suffered in the day.
Moose were scarce, the rabbits almost disappeared, hunting and preying animals perished.  Denied their usual food-supply, weakened by hunger, they fell upon and devoured one another.  Only the strong survived.  White Fang's gods were always hunting animals.  The old and the weak of them died of hunger.
The lordship of man was a need of his nature.  And so, because he needed a god and because he preferred Weedon Scott to Beauty Smith, White Fang remained.  In acknowledgment of fealty, he proceeded to take upon himself the guardianship of his master's property.  It was a matter of principle and conscience.  He felt that the ill done White Fang was a debt incurred by man and that it must be paid.
White Fang no longer hesitated.  He turned and leaped silently among his enemies.  All three faced him.  There was a great snarling and growling, a clashing of teeth and a flurry of bodies.  The dust of the road arose in a cloud and screened the battle.
Here stood the old Hudson's Bay Company fort; and here were many Indians, much food, and unprecedented excitement.  It was the summer of 1898, and thousands of gold-hunters were going up the Yukon to Dawson and the Klondike.  Here Grey Beaver stopped.  He would not have ventured so long a trip had he not expected generous profits.  But what he had expected was nothing to what he realised.
His whole demeanour, every action, was stamped with this purpose.  It puzzled White Fang.  Never had he seen such a dog.  It had no hair protection.  It was soft, and bled easily.
A club might have stopped White Fang, but not a whip.  In consequence, his forearm was ripped open to the bone.  The man was badly frightened.  It was not so much White Fang's ferocity as it was his silence that unnerved the groom.  Still protecting his throat and face with his torn and bleeding arm, he tried to retreat to the barn.
But the other kind was divided.  One portion was what his own kind killed and ate.  This portion was composed of the non-killers and the small killers.  The other portion killed and ate his own kind, or was killed and eaten by his own kind.  And out of this classification arose the law.
And here, in the Klondike, the leader was indeed the leader.  The wisest as well as strongest dog was the leader, and the team obeyed him and feared him.  That White Fang should quickly gain this post was inevitable.  He could not be satisfied with less, as Matt learned after much inconvenience and trouble.  Thus he was on duty all the time, ever vigilant and faithful, the most valuable of all the dogs.
Here the very air was palpitant with life.  It hummed and buzzed unceasingly.  He watched the man-animals coming and going and moving about the camp.  They were superior creatures, of a verity, gods.  To his dim comprehension they were as much wonder-workers as gods are to men.
They saw only the effects, and the effects were bad.  He found himself an outcast in the midst of the populous camp.  All the young dogs followed Lip-lip's lead.  There was a difference between White Fang and them.  But be that as it may, they joined with Lip-lip in the persecution.
The beginning of such a fight was a signal for all the young dogs in camp to come running and pitch upon him.  To keep one's feet in the midst of the hostile mass meant life, and this he learnt well.  He became cat-like in his ability to stay on his feet.  But White Fang learned to omit these preliminaries.  Delay meant the coming against him of all the young dogs.
It was dim- lighted; but his eyes had never had to adjust themselves to any other light.  His world was very small.  But he had early discovered that one wall of his world was different from the rest.  This was the mouth of the cave and the source of light.  It had been an irresistible attraction before ever his eyes opened and looked upon it.
The master talked to him gently but seriously, and he cocked his ears, and listened with painful intentness.  the remainder of the master's language, he knew it was his will that he should go home.  He turned and trotted reluctantly away.  Then he stopped, undecided, and looked back over his shoulder.  The family was on the porch, taking the cool of the afternoon, when White Fang arrived.
, but its volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email business@pglaf.  net/about/contact  For additional contact information: Dr.  Newby Chief Executive and Director gbnewby@pglaf.  Many small donations ($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the IRS.
She paused at the mouth of the cave and looked the wall over carefully.  Returning to the cave, she entered its narrow mouth.  The roof barely cleared her head.  It was dry and cosey.  Though he lay down in the entrance and slept, his sleep was fitful.
They were appalled by inaction and by the feel of something terrible impending.  He gave a great start of fright.  A colossal and formless something was rushing across the field of his vision.  It was a tree-shadow flung by the moon, from whose face the clouds had been brushed away.  A tree, contracting in the cool of the night, made a loud noise.
Water was not alive.  Also, it looked as solid as the earth, but was without any solidity at all.  His conclusion was that things were not always what they appeared to be.  The cub's fear of the unknown was an inherited distrust, and it had now been strengthened by experience.  Thenceforth, in the nature of things, he would possess an abiding distrust of appearances.
In the night-time, after they had gone to roost, he climbed to the top of a pile of newly hauled lumber.  From there he gained the roof of a chicken-house, passed over the ridgepole and dropped to the ground inside.  A moment later he was inside the house, and the slaughter began.  He whistled to himself, softly, first with surprise, and then, at the end, with admiration.  His eyes were likewise greeted by White Fang, but about the latter there were no signs of shame nor guilt.
He never allowed them any latitude.  He compelled them to an unremitting respect for him.  They might do as they pleased amongst themselves.  That was no concern of his.  He was a monstrous tyrant.
Midway in the passage, the current picked up the cub and swept him downstream.  He was caught in the miniature rapid at the bottom of the pool.  Here was little chance for swimming.  The quiet water had become suddenly angry.  Sometimes he was under, sometimes on top.
He gave no warning, with no snarl anticipated his own action.  Into the air he lifted his body in the spring that landed him on the strange god's back.  He clung on for a moment, long enough to drag the god over backward.  Together they crashed to the floor.  White Fang leaped clear, and, as the man struggled to rise, was in again with the slashing fangs.
They were known as _chechaquos_, and they always wilted at the application of the name.  They made their bread with baking-powder.  All of which is neither here nor there.  The men in the fort disdained the newcomers and enjoyed seeing them come to grief.  Especially did they enjoy the havoc worked amongst the newcomers' dogs by White Fang and his disreputable gang.
He passed a rope over his shoulder, a man-trace, and pulled with the dogs.  At the first hint of darkness he hastened to make a camp, and he saw to it that he had a generous supply of firewood.  He fed the dogs, cooked and ate his supper, and made his bed close to the fire.  But he was not destined to enjoy that bed.  Before his eyes closed the wolves had drawn too near for safety.
He sat for a long while upon the sled.  There was no need for him to go and see what had happened.  He knew it as though it had taken place before his eyes.  Once, he roused with a start and hastily got the axe out from underneath the lashings.  But for some time longer he sat and brooded, the two remaining dogs crouching and trembling at his feet.
The will to exist of his body surged over him.  He was dominated by this mere flesh-love of life.  All intelligence was gone.  It was as though he had no brain.  The bull- dog did little but keep his grip.
He sat down to consider, listening to the silence of the forest and perturbed by it.  That nothing moved nor sounded, seemed ominous.  He felt the lurking of danger, unseen and unguessed.  Here was no warm side of a tepee against which to snuggle.  The frost was in his feet, and he kept lifting first one fore- foot and then the other.
It was dark, and he could not see it, but he recognised it by the touch.  He flung it back, so that it struck the sled and bounced along until it fetched up on Bill's snowshoes.  Bill uttered an exclamation.  It was all that was left of Spanker--the stick with which he had been tied.  They've ate the leather offen both ends.
It was a knowledge bequeathed to him directly from the hunting generation of wolves.  There was a great row that night.  White Fang became hated by man and dog.  During this period of his development he never knew a moment's security.  The tooth of every dog was against him, the hand of every man.
He had a feeling of security that was belied by all his experience with men.  After a long time, the god got up and went into the cabin.  White Fang scanned him apprehensively when he came out.  He had neither whip nor club nor weapon.  Nor was his uninjured hand behind his back hiding something.
He killed other dogs as easily as men killed mosquitoes.  (Beauty Smith's eyes lighted up at this, and he licked his thin lips with an eager tongue).  No, White Fang was not for sale at any price.  But Beauty Smith knew the ways of Indians.  He visited Grey Beaver's camp often, and hidden under his coat was always a black bottle or so.
Because of this new feeling within him, he ofttimes elected discomfort and pain for the sake of his god.  _Like_ had been replaced by _love_.  And love was the plummet dropped down into the deeps of him where like had never gone.  And responsive out of his deeps had come the new thing--love.  That which was given unto him did he return.
Weedon Scott pressed a button, and the staircase and downstairs hall were flooded with light.  Then he and Judge Scott, revolvers in hand, cautiously descended.  There was no need for this caution.  White Fang had done his work.  Weedon Scott bent over, removed the arm and turned the man's face upward.
To give point to unending pursuit of the leader, Mit-sah favoured him over the other dogs.  These favours aroused in them jealousy and hatred.  In their presence Mit-sah would give him meat and would give it to him only.  This was maddening to them.  White Fang took kindly to the work.
Duty rose above fear, and thieving gods learned to leave Grey Beaver's property alone.  Also, he learned that but brief time elapsed between his sounding of the alarm and Grey Beaver coming to his aid.  He came to know that it was not fear of him that drove the thief away, but fear of Grey Beaver.  White Fang did not give the alarm by barking.  His method was to drive straight at the intruder, and to sink his teeth in if he could.
He was no fool himself, and whatever vengeance he desired to wreak, he could wait until he caught White Fang alone.  Later on that day, Kiche and White Fang strayed into the edge of the woods next to the camp.  He had led his mother there, step by step, and now when she stopped, he tried to inveigle her farther.  The stream, the lair, and the quiet woods were calling to him, and he wanted her to come.  He ran on a few steps, stopped, and looked back.
The dog-musher laid his hand on Beauty Smith's shoulder and faced him to the right about.  No word needed to be spoken.  Beauty Smith started.  In the meantime the love-master was patting White Fang and talking to him.  It was in the air.
He set to work to carry out a new idea that had come to him.  He extended the fire into a large circle.  Inside this circle he crouched, his sleeping outfit under him as a protection against the melting snow.  Then the she- wolf sat down, pointed her nose at a star, and began to howl.  Dawn came, and daylight.
The circle of flame and coals was breaking into segments with openings in between.  These openings grew in size, the segments diminished.  Once he awakened, and in an opening in the circle, directly in front of him, he saw the she-wolf gazing at him.  Again he awakened, a little later, though it seemed hours to him.  A mysterious change had taken place--so mysterious a change that he was shocked wider awake.
The days passed by, and they kept together, hunting their meat and killing and eating it in common.  After a time the she-wolf began to grow restless.  She seemed to be searching for something that she could not find.  Several times they encountered solitary wolves.  These were always males, and they were pressingly insistent on joining with One Eye and his mate.
Growling savagely, White Fang sprang out of the corner, overturning the boy and the girl.  The mother called them to her and comforted them, telling them not to bother White Fang.  As for his  He did not finish his sentence.  White Fang stood before him, growling fiercely.  White Fang turned to the love-master's wife.
There was much to interest him.  Something was always happening.  There was no end to the strange things these gods did, and he was always curious to see.  Besides, he was learning how to get along with Grey Beaver.  And such a piece of meat was of value.
In the meantime the rabbit danced above them in the air.  As he sank back with it between his teeth, he kept his eye on the sapling.  As before, it followed him back to earth.  He crouched down under the impending blow, his hair bristling, but his teeth still keeping tight hold of the rabbit.  But the blow did not fall.
White Fang was in his way.  He spurned him savagely with his foot.  In that moment White Fang's free nature flashed forth again, and he sank his teeth into the moccasined foot.  The beating that had gone before was as nothing compared with the beating he now received.  Grey Beaver's wrath was terrible; likewise was White Fang's fright.
Wants to know what has become of you, and I don't  It was as Matt had said.  White Fang had ceased eating, lost heart, and allowed every dog of the team to thrash him.  In the cabin he lay on the floor near the stove, without interest in food, in Matt, nor in life.  He had got upon his feet, his ears cocked towards the door, and he was listening intently.  A moment later, Matt heard a footstep.
The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:  1.  7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.  7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder.
It made a queer, grating noise.  The next moment the flash of yellow reappeared before his eyes.  This mother-weasel was so small and so savage.  But a portion of this knowledge was quickly to be his.  He was still whimpering when the mother-weasel reappeared.
They were half-brothers, only they did not know it.  White Fang sniffed the puppy curiously, whereupon Kiche rushed upon him, gashing his face a second time.  He backed farther away.  All the old memories and associations died down again and passed into the grave from which they had been resurrected.  He looked at Kiche licking her puppy and stopping now and then to snarl at him.
After a time the voices died away, and some time after that he crept out to enjoy the success of his undertaking.  Darkness was coming on, and for a while he played about among the trees, pleasuring in his freedom.  Then, and quite suddenly, he became aware of loneliness.  He sat down to consider, listening to the silence of the forest and perturbed by it.  That nothing moved nor sounded, seemed ominous.
Remained only the trampled snow to show how closely they had pressed him.  There were cries of men, and churn of sleds, the creaking of harnesses, and the eager whimpering of straining dogs.  Four sleds pulled in from the river bed to the camp among the trees.  Half a dozen men were about the man who crouched in the centre of the dying fire.  They were shaking and prodding him into consciousness.
Yet this endurance he achieved.  Furthermore, he got over being awkward and self-conscious.  In a lofty way he received the attentions of the multitudes of strange gods.  With condescension he accepted their condescension.  On the other hand, there was something about him that prevented great familiarity.
This because he considered that they were likewise possessions of the master.  Between White Fang and them existed a neutrality and no more.  They cooked for the master and washed the dishes and did other things just as Matt had done up in the Klondike.  They were, in short, appurtenances of the household.  Outside the household there was even more for White Fang to learn.
There he drowsed, only half asleep, his ears keyed for the first sound of the familiar step.  But, at two in the morning, his anxiety drove him out to the cold front stoop, where he crouched, and waited.  In the morning the door opened and Matt stepped outside.  White Fang gazed at him wistfully.  There was no common speech by which he might learn what he wanted to know.
He passed a rope over his shoulder, a man-trace, and pulled with the dogs.  At the first hint of darkness he hastened to make a camp, and he saw to it that he had a generous supply of firewood.  He fed the dogs, cooked and ate his supper, and made his bed close to the fire.  But he was not destined to enjoy that bed.  Before his eyes closed the wolves had drawn too near for safety.
He knew only hate and lost himself in the passion of it.  Life had become a hell to him.  He had not been made for the close confinement wild beasts endure at the hands of men.  And yet it was in precisely this way that he was treated.  Men stared at him, poked sticks between the bars to make him snarl, and then laughed at him.
White Fang was in Grey Beaver's camp when Beauty Smith first visited it.  At the faint sound of his distant feet, before he came in sight, White Fang knew who was coming and began to bristle.  He did not know what they said, but he could see the man and Grey Beaver talking together.  Grey Beaver refused to sell the dog.  He had grown rich with his trading and stood in need of nothing.
The unknown bore him on he knew not to what frightful hurt, and he yelped and ki-yi'd unceasingly.  This was a different proposition from crouching in frozen fear while the unknown lurked just alongside.  Now the unknown had caught tight hold of him.  Silence would do no good.  Besides, it was not fear, but terror, that convulsed him.
But White Fang did not follow them.  The master was still in the cabin.  After a time, Matt returned.  The master came to the door and called White Fang inside.  But White Fang refused to growl.
And then she found the thing for which she sought.  The she-wolf was trotting wearily along, her mate well in advance, when she came upon the overhanging, high clay-bank.  She turned aside and trotted over to it.  She paused at the mouth of the cave and looked the wall over carefully.  Returning to the cave, she entered its narrow mouth.
He merely thrashed his team-mates.  Otherwise he ignored them.  They got out of his way when he came along; nor did the boldest of them ever dare to rob him of his meat.  On the contrary, they devoured their own meat hurriedly, for fear that he would take it away from them.  White Fang knew the law well: _to oppress the weak and obey the strong_.
That's what's ailin' you.  Henry leaped out of the blankets and to the dogs.  And so was recorded the second epitaph in two days.  A gloomy breakfast was eaten, and the four remaining dogs were harnessed to the sled.  The day was a repetition of the days that had gone before.
And when it did get its teeth into him, it did not hold on but let go instantly and darted away again.  But White Fang could not get at the soft underside of the throat.  The bull-dog stood too short, while its massive jaws were an added protection.  White Fang darted in and out unscathed, while Cherokee's wounds increased.  Both sides of his neck and head were ripped and slashed.
But these were accidents.  In the main, so efficient a fighter had he become, he went his way unscathed.  Another advantage he possessed was that of correctly judging time and distance.  Not that he did this consciously, however.  He did not calculate such things.
But White Fang did not follow them.  The master was still in the cabin.  After a time, Matt returned.  The master came to the door and called White Fang inside.  But White Fang refused to growl.
A gaping throat explained the manner of his death.  Then they turned to White Fang.  He, too, was lying on his side.  Weedon Scott patted him, and his throat rumbled an acknowledging growl.  But it was a weak growl at best, and it quickly ceased.
He could die dumb-mad and fighting to the last, but he could not live and be beaten.  It was during Jim Hall's third term in prison that he encountered a guard that was almost as great a beast as he.  The guard treated him unfairly, lied about him to the warden, lost his credits, persecuted him.  The difference between them was that the guard carried a bunch of keys and a revolver.  Jim Hall had only his naked hands and his teeth.
In the morning it was Henry who awoke first and routed his companion out of bed.  Daylight came at nine o'clock.  But the rose-colour swiftly faded.  He straightened up in time to see a dim form disappearing across the snow into the shelter of the dark.  That's what's ailin' you.
And because of all this, he carried himself more boldly, with a touch of defiance that was new in him.  And in his own dim way he learned the law of meat.  There were two kinds of life--his own kind and the other kind.  His own kind included his mother and himself.  The other kind included all live things that moved.
As the sun was to the outside dweller, this wall was to him the sun of his world.  It attracted him as a candle attracts a moth.  He was always striving to attain it.  The life that was so swiftly expanding within him, urged him continually toward the wall of light.  The life that was within him knew that it was the one way out, the way he was predestined to tread.
On the contrary, it was even pleasant, in a physical way.  At the instant his voice broke the silence, White Fang leaped back, snarling savagely at him.  Matt regarded his employer with grieved disapproval.  It was the beginning of the end for White Fang--the ending of the old life and the reign of hate.  A new and incomprehensibly fairer life was dawning.
Matt helped the man to his feet.  As he arose he lowered his crossed arms, exposing the bestial face of Beauty Smith.  The dog-musher let go of him precipitately, with action similar to that of a man who has picked up live fire.  Beauty Smith blinked in the lamplight and looked about him.  He caught sight of White Fang and terror rushed into his face.
Here the very air was palpitant with life.  It hummed and buzzed unceasingly.  He watched the man-animals coming and going and moving about the camp.  They were superior creatures, of a verity, gods.  To his dim comprehension they were as much wonder-workers as gods are to men.
She remained always between him and the way he wanted to go.  Weedon Scott laughed.  learn many things, and it's just as well that he begins now.  He'll  The carriage drove on, and still Collie blocked White Fang's way.  Back he circled, across the drive to the other lawn, and again she headed him off.
He came in among them, panting, covered with dust.  The children welcomed White Fang with glad cries and ran to meet him.  He avoided them and passed down the porch, but they cornered him against a rocking-chair and the railing.  He growled and tried to push by them.  Their mother looked apprehensively in their direction.
As he arose he lowered his crossed arms, exposing the bestial face of Beauty Smith.  The dog-musher let go of him precipitately, with action similar to that of a man who has picked up live fire.  Beauty Smith blinked in the lamplight and looked about him.  He caught sight of White Fang and terror rushed into his face.  At the same moment Matt noticed two objects lying in the snow.
It was not the first time in his long and successful life that this thing had happened.  It had happened many times, yet each time it was as fresh a surprise as ever to him.  His mate looked at him anxiously.  But there was no danger.  He did not question it, nor puzzle over it.
But he was, further, the fiercest of the litter.  He could make a louder rasping growl than any of them.  His tiny rages were much more terrible than theirs.  It was he that first learned the trick of rolling a fellow- cub over with a cunning paw-stroke.  And it was he that first gripped another cub by the ear and pulled and tugged and growled through jaws tight-clenched.
The faro-dealer stooped down obediently and got a firm hold on Cherokee.  The dogs were drawn apart, the bull-dog struggling vigorously.  White Fang made several ineffectual efforts to get up.  Once he gained his feet, but his legs were too weak to sustain him, and he slowly wilted and sank back into the snow.  His eyes were half closed, and the surface of them was glassy.
He belonged to them as all dogs belonged to them.  His actions were theirs to command.  His body was theirs to maul, to stamp upon, to tolerate.  Such was the lesson that was quickly borne in upon him.  It was a placing of his destiny in another's hands, a shifting of the responsibilities of existence.
He would not go up to them.  On the other hand, instead of walking away at sight of them, he waited for them to come to him.  All this was a matter of development, and took time.  Next in his regard, after the children, was Judge Scott.  There were two reasons, possibly, for this.
He had come into the world with a twisted body and a brute intelligence.  This had constituted the clay of him, and it had not been kindly moulded by the world.  White Fang knew why he was being beaten.  Therefore, he had disobeyed the will of both the gods, and earned the consequent punishment.  He had seen dogs change owners in the past, and he had seen the runaways beaten as he was being beaten.
He was in an iron tomb, buried alive.  He saw no human face, spoke to no human thing.  When his food was shoved in to him, he growled like a wild animal.  He hated all things.  For days and nights he bellowed his rage at the universe.
She seemed to be searching for something that she could not find.  Several times they encountered solitary wolves.  These were always males, and they were pressingly insistent on joining with One Eye and his mate.  One moonlight night, running through the quiet forest, One Eye suddenly halted.  His muzzle went up, his tail stiffened, and his nostrils dilated as he scented the air.
After that they ran side by side, like good friends who have come to an understanding.  The days passed by, and they kept together, hunting their meat and killing and eating it in common.  After a time the she-wolf began to grow restless.  She seemed to be searching for something that she could not find.  Several times they encountered solitary wolves.
Then their noses touched, and he felt the warm little tongue of the puppy on his jowl.  White Fang's tongue went out, he knew not why, and he licked the puppy's face.  Hand-clapping and pleased cries from the gods greeted the performance.  He was surprised, and looked at them in a puzzled way.  Then his weakness asserted itself, and he lay down, his ears cocked, his head on one side, as he watched the puppy.
It had come down to him from a remote ancestry through a thousand thousand lives.  Fear!--that legacy of the Wild which no animal may escape nor exchange for pottage.  So the grey cub knew fear, though he knew not the stuff of which fear was made.  Possibly he accepted it as one of the restrictions of life.  For he had already learned that there were such restrictions.
He had never fought before with a dog with which he could not close.  The desire to close had always been mutual.  But here was a dog that kept at a distance, dancing and dodging here and there and all about.  And when it did get its teeth into him, it did not hold on but let go instantly and darted away again.  But White Fang could not get at the soft underside of the throat.
The silence was unbroken save by the cries of their pursuers, that, unseen, hung upon their rear.  night, standing erect at completion of his task.  Henry left the cooking to come and see.  Not only had his partner tied the dogs up, but he had tied them, after the Indian fashion, with sticks.  About the neck of each dog he had fastened a leather thong.
Through the door came a low, anxious whine, like a sobbing under the breath that had just grown audible.  But this did not satisfy Weedon Scott.  The other seemed to be judging him in a non-committal sort of way.  If he didn't bankrupt me with damaged suits, the   Weedon Scott looked at him suspiciously.  The other suspicion was allayed.
They remembered only the latest, which was his weakness and sickness.  At the sight of him as he came out of the cabin, they sprang upon him.  doorway and looking on.  White Fang did not need the encouragement.  The return of the love-master was enough.
The master with his toe helped one sprawling puppy toward him.  He bristled suspiciously, but the master warned him that all was well.  The puppy sprawled in front of him.  He cocked his ears and watched it curiously.  Then their noses touched, and he felt the warm little tongue of the puppy on his jowl.
He was better fitted for the life than the other dogs, for he had the training of his cubhood to guide him.  Especially adept did he become in stalking small living things.  Even then, White Fang was not premature.  He waited until he was sure of striking before the squirrel could gain a tree-refuge.  Successful as he was with squirrels, there was one difficulty that prevented him from living and growing fat on them.
Then he saw that no harm befell the dogs that were near to them, and he came in closer.  In turn he was an object of great curiosity to them.  His wolfish appearance caught their eyes at once, and they pointed him out to one another.  Not one succeeded in laying a hand on him, and it was well that they did not.  White Fang soon learned that very few of these gods--not more than a dozen--lived at this place.
Matt loosened the bandana from his own neck and started to put it around White Fang's.  Scott grasped the dog-musher's hand.  Matt paused halfway down the gang-plank.  The gang-plank was hauled in, and the _Aurora_ swung out from the bank.  Weedon Scott waved a last good-bye.
Mechanically, at short range, without letting go of it, he thrust a brand full into her open and snarling mouth.  But this time, before he dozed again, he tied a burning pine-knot to his right hand.  His eyes were closed but few minutes when the burn of the flame on his flesh awakened him.  For several hours he adhered to this programme.  All worked well, but there came a time when he fastened the pine- knot insecurely.
It followed down after him, pressing more closely against him.  Shrinking, almost shivering, he still managed to hold himself together.  It was a torment, this hand that touched him and violated his instinct.  He could not forget in a day all the evil that had been wrought him at the hands of men.  But it was the will of the god, and he strove to submit.
As Matt had pleaded for White Fang when he had been bitten, it was now Weedon Scott's turn to plead.  started, and we can't quit at the beginning.  expression of astonishment.  meaning of firearms as well as you do.  He's got intelligence and we've  woodpile.
He loved with single heart and refused to cheapen himself or his love.  The master went out on horseback a great deal, and to accompany him was one of White Fang's chief duties in life.  So he rendered fealty in the new way, by running with the master's horse.  The longest day never played White Fang out.  It grew more nervous and excited every moment.
His eyes saw correctly, and the nerves carried the vision correctly to his brain.  The parts of him were better adjusted than those of the average dog.  They worked together more smoothly and steadily.  His was a better, far better, nervous, mental, and muscular co-ordination.  Body and brain, his was a more perfected mechanism.
He knew clearly what was to be done, and this he did by promptly eating the ptarmigan.  Then he returned and took up his burden.  Her instinctive fear of the father of her progeny was toning down.  He was different from his brothers and sisters.  He was the one little grey cub of the litter.
wouldn't stand for it.  He'll learn   She looked at White Fang, who snarled and bristled and glared malevolently.  He spoke softly to White Fang until he had quieted him, then his voice became firm.  Scott opened his arms to her, but kept his eyes on White Fang.  White Fang, bristling silently, half-crouching as he rose, sank back and watched the hostile act repeated.
They had hurt only the flesh of him; beneath the flesh the spirit had still raged, splendid and invincible.  But with the master the cuff was always too light to hurt the flesh.  It was an expression of the master's disapproval, and White Fang's spirit wilted under it.  In point of fact, the cuff was rarely administered.  The master's voice was sufficient.
There was much to interest him.  Something was always happening.  There was no end to the strange things these gods did, and he was always curious to see.  Besides, he was learning how to get along with Grey Beaver.  And such a piece of meat was of value.
And in this his brothers and sisters were one with him.  Never, in that period, did any of them crawl toward the dark corners of the back-wall.  They were always crawling and sprawling toward it, and being driven back from it by their mother.  It was in this way that the grey cub learned other attributes of his mother than the soft, soothing, tongue.  These were conscious actions, and were the results of his first generalisations upon the world.
He was bewildered by the tremendous and endless rush and movement of things.  He was put into a baggage-car by the master, chained in a corner in the midst of heaped trunks and valises.  And here, in this inferno of luggage, was White Fang deserted by the master.  White Fang emerged from the car.  The nightmare city was gone.
His body was theirs to maul, to stamp upon, to tolerate.  Such was the lesson that was quickly borne in upon him.  It was a placing of his destiny in another's hands, a shifting of the responsibilities of existence.  This in itself was compensation, for it is always easier to lean upon another than to stand alone.  But it did not all happen in a day, this giving over of himself, body and soul, to the man-animals.
He yelped in his fright.  A panic seized him, and he ran madly toward the village.  He knew an overpowering desire for the protection and companionship of man.  In his nostrils was the smell of the camp-smoke.  In his ears the camp-sounds and cries were ringing loud.
His world was very small.  But he had early discovered that one wall of his world was different from the rest.  This was the mouth of the cave and the source of light.  It had been an irresistible attraction before ever his eyes opened and looked upon it.  Always, in the beginning, before his conscious life dawned, he had crawled toward the mouth of the cave.
At last Grey Beaver withheld his hand.  White Fang, hanging limply, continued to cry.  This seemed to satisfy his master, who flung him down roughly in the bottom of the canoe.  In the meantime the canoe had drifted down the stream.  Grey Beaver picked up the paddle.
And here was where the difference came in.  Beauty Smith gave him a beating.  Tied securely, White Fang could only rage futilely and endure the punishment.  Club and whip were both used upon him, and he experienced the worst beating he had ever received in his life.  Even the big beating given him in his puppyhood by Grey Beaver was mild compared with this.
When the steamboat arrived at Dawson, White Fang went ashore.  But he still lived a public life, in a cage, surrounded by curious men.  He was given no rest.  Did he lie down to sleep, he was stirred up by a sharp stick--so that the audience might get its money's worth.  In order to make the exhibition interesting, he was kept in a rage most of the time.
The snarling of his dogs was losing its efficacy.  He awoke with a start.  The she-wolf was less than a yard from him.  Mechanically, at short range, without letting go of it, he thrust a brand full into her open and snarling mouth.  But this time, before he dozed again, he tied a burning pine-knot to his right hand.
Then began a fire fight.  But it could not last long.  With a flaming brand in each hand, he sprang to the edge of the fire.  The wolves had been driven back.  He set to work to carry out a new idea that had come to him.
The days were thronged with experience for White Fang.  During the time that Kiche was tied by the stick, he ran about over all the camp, inquiring, investigating, learning.  He quickly came to know much of the ways of the man-animals, but familiarity did not breed contempt.  There is no getting away from it.  And so it was with White Fang.
In his ears the camp-sounds and cries were ringing loud.  He passed out of the forest and into the moonlit open where were no shadows nor darknesses.  But no village greeted his eyes.  The village had gone away.  His wild flight ceased abruptly.
The coffin, at the side of the fire, served for seat and table.  Henry, squatting over the fire and settling the pot of coffee with a piece of ice, nodded.  Nor did he speak till he had taken his seat on the coffin and begun to eat.  I took six fish out of the bag.  I gave one fish to each dog, an',   six fish.
But had he been merely wise he would not have gone back to Grey Beaver who had already twice betrayed him.  But there was his faithfulness, and he went back to be betrayed yet a third time.  Again he yielded to the tying of a thong around his neck by Grey Beaver, and again Beauty Smith came to claim him.  And this time he was beaten even more severely than before.  Grey Beaver looked on stolidly while the white man wielded the whip.
The backers of Cherokee waxed jubilant and offered ridiculous odds.  This man was Beauty Smith.  He took a step into the ring and pointed his finger at White Fang.  Then he began to laugh derisively and scornfully.  This produced the desired effect.
He ran back to her, licked her face, and ran on again.  And still she did not move.  There was something calling to him out there in the open.  His mother heard it too.  Kiche turned and slowly trotted back toward camp.
His bondage had softened him.  Irresponsibility had weakened him.  He had forgotten how to shift for himself.  The night yawned about him.  There was nothing to do, nothing to see nor hear.
Duty rose above fear, and thieving gods learned to leave Grey Beaver's property alone.  Also, he learned that but brief time elapsed between his sounding of the alarm and Grey Beaver coming to his aid.  He came to know that it was not fear of him that drove the thief away, but fear of Grey Beaver.  White Fang did not give the alarm by barking.  His method was to drive straight at the intruder, and to sink his teeth in if he could.
It was large for a wolf, its gaunt frame advertising the lines of an animal that was among the largest of its kind.  The animal was certainly not cinnamon-coloured.  Its coat was the true wolf-coat.  Bill waved his hand at it threateningly and shouted loudly; but the animal betrayed no fear.  The only change in it that they could notice was an accession of alertness.
Something was impending.  He bristled and showed his teeth, his eyes vigilant, his whole body wary and prepared for anything.  The god had no club, so he suffered him to approach quite near.  The god's hand had come out and was descending upon his head.  White Fang shrank together and grew tense as he crouched under it.
The camp-sounds came to his ears.  There was fresh meat in camp!  White Fang expected a beating.  He crouched and bristled a little at the thought of it.  Then he went forward again.  He feared and disliked the beating he knew to be waiting for him.
The master's voice was sufficient.  By it White Fang knew whether he did right or not.  By it he trimmed his conduct and adjusted his actions.  It was the compass by which he steered and learned to chart the manners of a new land and life.  In the Northland, the only domesticated animal was the dog.
The silence was unbroken save by the cries of their pursuers, that, unseen, hung upon their rear.  night, standing erect at completion of his task.  Henry left the cooking to come and see.  Not only had his partner tied the dogs up, but he had tied them, after the Indian fashion, with sticks.  About the neck of each dog he had fastened a leather thong.
They learned that it was when a steamer first tied to the bank that they had their fun.  One white man, having seen his dog, a setter, torn to pieces before his eyes, drew a revolver.  White Fang enjoyed it all.  He did not love his kind, and he was shrewd enough to escape hurt himself.  At first, the killing of the white men's dogs had been a diversion.
Both men bent over the dogs.  Matt took hold of White Fang, ready to pull when Cherokee's jaws should be loosened.  This the younger man endeavoured to accomplish by clutching the bulldog's jaws in his hands and trying to spread them.  It was a vain undertaking.  The pair paused and surveyed the locked dogs.
The gods were ever crafty, and they had unguessed ways of attaining their ends.  But the god went on talking.  His voice was soft and soothing.  In spite of the menacing hand, the voice inspired confidence.  And in spite of the assuring voice, the hand inspired distrust.
He put his hand upon her head, and she only crouched closer.  She did not snap, nor threaten to snap.  The other men came up, and surrounded her, and felt her, and pawed her, which actions she made no attempt to resent.  They were greatly excited, and made many noises with their mouths.  But his father was a wolf.
There was nothing else for him to do.  Henry judged his case to be hopeless.  The different lines were rapidly approaching a point.  All too quickly, far more quickly than he had expected, it happened.  He heard a shot, then two shots, in rapid succession, and he knew that Bill's ammunition was gone.
And Jim Hall, on the other hand, did not know that Judge Scott was merely ignorant.  Then Jim Hall went to his living death.  Of all this White Fang knew nothing.  But between him and Alice, the master's wife, there existed a secret.  Each night, after Sierra Vista had gone to bed, she rose and let in White Fang to sleep in the big hall.
Weedon Scott bent over, removed the arm and turned the man's face upward.  A gaping throat explained the manner of his death.  Then they turned to White Fang.  He, too, was lying on his side.  Weedon Scott patted him, and his throat rumbled an acknowledging growl.
It was dry and cosey.  Though he lay down in the entrance and slept, his sleep was fitful.  He kept awaking and cocking his ears at the bright world without, where the April sun was blazing across the snow.  The sun had come back, and all the awakening Northland world was calling to him.  He cast anxious glances at his mate, but she showed no desire to get up.
The next moment she was at his throat, her teeth buried in his hair and flesh.  The weasel never relaxed her hold.  She hung on, striving to press down with her teeth to the great vein where his life-blood bubbled.  The weasel was a drinker of blood, and it was ever her preference to drink from the throat of life itself.  The weasel let go the cub and flashed at the she-wolf's throat, missing, but getting a hold on the jaw instead.
He had not been born right, and he had not been helped any by the moulding he had received at the hands of society.  The hands of society are harsh, and this man was a striking sample of its handiwork.  In San Quentin prison he had proved incorrigible.  Punishment failed to break his spirit.  He could die dumb-mad and fighting to the last, but he could not live and be beaten.
Henry looked about with great carefulness and shook his head.  Bill held up the empty cup.  A flush of angry blood pervaded Bill's face.  time an' cavortin' over the landscape in the bellies of twenty different  But Bill shook his head.  It was dark, and he could not see it, but he recognised it by the touch.
They learned that it was when a steamer first tied to the bank that they had their fun.  One white man, having seen his dog, a setter, torn to pieces before his eyes, drew a revolver.  White Fang enjoyed it all.  He did not love his kind, and he was shrewd enough to escape hurt himself.  At first, the killing of the white men's dogs had been a diversion.
Grey Beaver had betrayed and forsaken him, but that had no effect upon him.  Not for nothing had he surrendered himself body and soul to Grey Beaver.  There had been no reservation on White Fang's part, and the bond was not to be broken easily.  So, in the night, when the men in the fort were asleep, White Fang applied his teeth to the stick that held him.  The wood was seasoned and dry, and it was tied so closely to his neck that he could scarcely get his teeth to it.
He snarled involuntarily as he felt her teeth in his shoulder, but beyond this made no offer to hurt her.  He backed away, stiff-legged with self-consciousness, and tried to go around her.  He dodged this way and that, and curved and turned, but to no purpose.  She remained always between him and the way he wanted to go.  Weedon Scott laughed.
He waited at a distance; but he always waited, was always there.  His love partook of the nature of worship, dumb, inarticulate, a silent adoration.  He learned to adjust himself in many ways to his new mode of life.  It was borne in upon him that he must let his master's dogs alone.  This accomplished, he had little trouble with them.
The she-wolf was angry.  For him to resent such reproof was equally unexpected to her, and she sprang upon him in snarling indignation.  Then he discovered his mistake and tried to placate her.  In the meantime the rabbit danced above them in the air.  As he sank back with it between his teeth, he kept his eye on the sapling.
Later on two Indians arrived.  But White Fang did not follow them.  The master was still in the cabin.  After a time, Matt returned.  The master came to the door and called White Fang inside.
The result was a sharp peck on the end of his nose that made him cower down and ki-yi.  The noise he made was too much for the moose-bird, who sought safety in flight.  But the cub was learning.  His misty little mind had already made an unconscious classification.  There were live things and things not alive.
General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Professor Michael S.  unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.  Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:  http://www.
This was the ancient covenant that the first wolf that came in from the Wild entered into with man.  And, like all succeeding wolves and wild dogs that had done likewise, White Fang worked the covenant out for himself.  The terms were simple.  For the possession of a flesh-and- blood god, he exchanged his own liberty.  Food and fire, protection and companionship, were some of the things he received from the god.
He clung on for a moment, long enough to drag the god over backward.  Together they crashed to the floor.  White Fang leaped clear, and, as the man struggled to rise, was in again with the slashing fangs.  Sierra Vista awoke in alarm.  The noise from downstairs was as that of a score of battling fiends.
It was like the trap, and all his instinct resented it and revolted against it.  For several minutes he was to all intents insane.  The basic life that was in him took charge of him.  The will to exist of his body surged over him.  He was dominated by this mere flesh-love of life.
One other adventure was destined for him that day.  He had recollected that there was such a thing in the world as his mother.  And then there came to him a feeling that he wanted her more than all the rest of the things in the world.  Not only was his body tired with the adventures it had undergone, but his little brain was equally tired.  In all the days he had lived it had not worked so hard as on this one day.
He placed his paw on one, and its movements were accelerated.  This was a source of enjoyment to him.  He picked it up in his mouth.  It struggled and tickled his tongue.  At the same time he was made aware of a sensation of hunger.
They were ordinary, unsuspecting dogs.  They were not prepared for his swiftness and directness, for his attack without warning.  They did not know him for what he was, a lightning-flash of slaughter.  He became an adept at fighting.  He never wasted his strength, never tussled.
And here, confined, hidden from view all except his ears, no longer growling, he continued to nudge and snuggle.  The two men looked at each other.  Scott's eyes were shining.  With the return of the love-master, White Fang's recovery was rapid.  Two nights and a day he spent in the cabin.
It was like Fate itself, and as inexorable.  Slowly it shifted up along the jugular.  All that saved White Fang from death was the loose skin of his neck and the thick fur that covered it.  This served to form a large roll in Cherokee's mouth, the fur of which well-nigh defied his teeth.  But bit by bit, whenever the chance offered, he was getting more of the loose skin and fur in his mouth.
There was fresh meat in camp!  White Fang expected a beating.  He crouched and bristled a little at the thought of it.  Then he went forward again.  He feared and disliked the beating he knew to be waiting for him.  He came cringing and crawling into the firelight.
The dogs that still lived, looked on and understood.  In this time of misery, White Fang, too, stole away into the woods.  He was better fitted for the life than the other dogs, for he had the training of his cubhood to guide him.  Especially adept did he become in stalking small living things.  Even then, White Fang was not premature.
The hands of society are harsh, and this man was a striking sample of its handiwork.  In San Quentin prison he had proved incorrigible.  Punishment failed to break his spirit.  He could die dumb-mad and fighting to the last, but he could not live and be beaten.  It was during Jim Hall's third term in prison that he encountered a guard that was almost as great a beast as he.
Only the strong survived.  White Fang's gods were always hunting animals.  The old and the weak of them died of hunger.  Also, the dogs ate one another, and also the gods ate the dogs.  The weakest and the more worthless were eaten first.
steps and lain down to one side of the porch, still growling and keeping a sullen watch on the intruder.  All the gods started up the steps to enter the house.  White Fang followed closely at the master's heels.  Dick, on the porch, growled, and White Fang, on the steps, bristled and growled back.  The elder Scott looked incredulously, first at White Fang, then at Dick, and finally at his son.
This was his severest fight, and though in the end he killed them both he was himself half killed in doing it.  He raged and snarled at them, or lay quietly and studied them with cold hatred.  Why should he not hate them?  He never asked himself the question.  He knew only hate and lost himself in the passion of it.  Life had become a hell to him.
He had eaten the lynx kitten.  The lynx-mother would have eaten him had she not herself been killed and eaten.  The law was being lived about him by all live things, and he himself was part and parcel of the law.  But the cub did not think in man-fashion.  He did not look at things with wide vision.
But he was not destined to enjoy that bed.  Before his eyes closed the wolves had drawn too near for safety.  It no longer required an effort of the vision to see them.  Here and there he could see one curled up in the snow like a dog, taking the sleep that was now denied himself.  Then the circle would lie down again, and here and there a wolf would resume its broken nap.
Weedon Scott did not hear.  And White Fang was growling responsively, the crooning note of the growl more pronounced than ever.  But that was not all.  He suddenly thrust his head forward and nudged his way in between the master's arm and body.  And here, confined, hidden from view all except his ears, no longer growling, he continued to nudge and snuggle.
Then he discovered it.  The wolves were gone.  Remained only the trampled snow to show how closely they had pressed him.  There were cries of men, and churn of sleds, the creaking of harnesses, and the eager whimpering of straining dogs.  Four sleds pulled in from the river bed to the camp among the trees.
He had had experience in puppy fights and was already something of a bully.  They half circled about each other, tentatively, snarling and bristling.  This lasted several minutes, and White Fang was beginning to enjoy it, as a sort of game.  But suddenly, with remarkable swiftness, Lip-lip leaped in, delivering a slashing snap, and leaped away again.  But Lip-lip had lived his life in camp and had fought many puppy fights.
He crushed them and broke them on his large horns.  He stamped them into the snow under him in the wallowing struggle.  There was food in plenty.  There was now much resting and sleeping.  The famine was over.
He bounded towards her joyously, and she met him with shrewd fangs that laid his cheek open to the bone.  He did not understand.  He backed away, bewildered and puzzled.  But it was not Kiche's fault.  A wolf-mother was not made to remember her cubs of a year or so before.
This had constituted the clay of him, and it had not been kindly moulded by the world.  White Fang knew why he was being beaten.  Therefore, he had disobeyed the will of both the gods, and earned the consequent punishment.  He had seen dogs change owners in the past, and he had seen the runaways beaten as he was being beaten.  He was wise, and yet in the nature of him there were forces greater than wisdom.
Forgotten were the days they had hunted together, the game they had pulled down, the famine they had suffered.  That business was a thing of the past.  The business of love was at hand--ever a sterner and crueller business than that of food-getting.  And in the meanwhile, the she-wolf, the cause of it all, sat down contentedly on her haunches and watched.  She was even pleased.
Why should he not hate them?  He never asked himself the question.  He knew only hate and lost himself in the passion of it.  Life had become a hell to him.  He had not been made for the close confinement wild beasts endure at the hands of men.  And yet it was in precisely this way that he was treated.
Thus he was on duty all the time, ever vigilant and faithful, the most valuable of all the dogs.  state that you was a wise guy all right when you paid the price you did for that dog.  Without warning, the love-master disappeared.  There had been warning, but White Fang was unversed in such things and did not understand the packing of a grip.  That night he waited for the master to return.
All this was the manifestation of power.  It was colossal, stunning.  White Fang was awed.  And there were so many gods!  He was made dizzy by the swarming of them.  The thunder of the streets smote upon his ears.
While the remains of Jim Hall were discovered on a dozen mountain-sides by greedy claimants for blood- money.  In the meantime the newspapers were read at Sierra Vista, not so much with interest as with anxiety.  The women were afraid.  For once, Jim Hall was right.  He was innocent of the crime for which he was sentenced.
Here was fear, and it did not require his instinct to tell him of it.  The cub felt the prod of the life that was in him, and stood up and snarled valiantly by his mother's side.  But she thrust him ignominiously away and behind her.  The cub saw little of the battle.  There was a tremendous snarling and spitting and screeching.
The she-wolf ran herself thin in the quest for meat.  She rarely slept any more in the cave, spending most of her time on the meat-trail, and spending it vainly.  This famine was not a long one, but it was severe while it lasted.  The cub found no more milk in his mother's breast, nor did he get one mouthful of meat for himself.  Before, he had hunted in play, for the sheer joyousness of it; now he hunted in deadly earnestness, and found nothing.
Sierra Vista was a far vaster affair than the tepee of Grey Beaver.  There were many persons to be considered.  There was Judge Scott, and there was his wife.  There were the master's two sisters, Beth and Mary.  There was his wife, Alice, and then there were his children, Weedon and Maud, toddlers of four and six.
***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WHITE FANG***   ******* This file should be named 910.  zip *******   This and all associated files of various formats will be found in: http://www.  org/dirs/9/1/910    Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will be renamed.  If you do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the rules is very easy.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.
Also, it looked as solid as the earth, but was without any solidity at all.  His conclusion was that things were not always what they appeared to be.  The cub's fear of the unknown was an inherited distrust, and it had now been strengthened by experience.  Thenceforth, in the nature of things, he would possess an abiding distrust of appearances.  He would have to learn the reality of a thing before he could put his faith into it.
Kiche turned and slowly trotted back toward camp.  Stronger than the physical restraint of the stick was the clutch of the camp upon her.  Unseen and occultly, the gods still gripped with their power and would not let her go.  White Fang sat down in the shadow of a birch and whimpered softly.  All the hours of his short life he had depended upon her.
It was the old village changed to a new place.  But sights and sounds and smells were different from those he had last had when he fled away from it.  There was no whimpering nor wailing.  And there was a smell in the air of fish.  The famine was gone.
White Fang darted in and out unscathed, while Cherokee's wounds increased.  Both sides of his neck and head were ripped and slashed.  He bled freely, but showed no signs of being disconcerted.  In that moment White Fang was in upon him and out, in passing ripping his trimmed remnant of an ear.  White Fang still danced on, dodging and doubling, leaping in and out, and ever inflicting damage.
She was tied, but he could not get away from her easily.  She rolled him off his legs so that he could not run, while she repeatedly ripped and slashed him with her fangs.  His hair was standing out all over him in tufts where her teeth had mauled.  He stood where he had arisen, opened his mouth, and broke out the long, heart-broken puppy wail.  But even this he was not allowed to complete.
White Fang had ceased eating, lost heart, and allowed every dog of the team to thrash him.  In the cabin he lay on the floor near the stove, without interest in food, in Matt, nor in life.  He had got upon his feet, his ears cocked towards the door, and he was listening intently.  A moment later, Matt heard a footstep.  The door opened, and Weedon Scott stepped in.
His eyelids drooped and went shut, and his whole body seemed to relax and flatten out upon the floor.  he had worked an hour and a half on White Fang.  Dawn was breaking through the windows and dimming the electric lights.  With the exception of the children, the whole family was gathered about the surgeon to hear his verdict.  which has pierced the lungs.
The laughter of men was a hateful thing.  They might laugh among themselves about anything they pleased except himself, and he did not mind.  But the moment laughter was turned upon him he would fly into a most terrible rage.  Grave, dignified, sombre, a laugh made him frantic to ridiculousness.  It so outraged him and upset him that for hours he would behave like a demon.
Then naught came up out of the blackness save a heavy panting of some creature struggling sorely for air.  Weedon Scott pressed a button, and the staircase and downstairs hall were flooded with light.  Then he and Judge Scott, revolvers in hand, cautiously descended.  There was no need for this caution.  White Fang had done his work.
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.  It exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life.  net/fundraising/pglaf.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification number is 64-6221541.  federal laws and your state's laws.
At sight of the crowd they stopped their dogs and came over and joined it, curious to see the cause of the excitement.  White Fang had practically ceased struggling.  Now and again he resisted spasmodically and to no purpose.  He could get little air, and that little grew less and less under the merciless grip that ever tightened.  When he saw White Fang's eyes beginning to glaze, he knew beyond doubt that the fight was lost.
Also, they feared him.  His cowardly rages made them dread a shot in the back or poison in their coffee.  But somebody had to do the cooking, and whatever else his shortcomings, Beauty Smith could cook.  This was the man that looked at White Fang, delighted in his ferocious prowess, and desired to possess him.  He made overtures to White Fang from the first.
His hair was standing out all over him in tufts where her teeth had mauled.  He stood where he had arisen, opened his mouth, and broke out the long, heart-broken puppy wail.  But even this he was not allowed to complete.  In the middle of it, White Fang, rushing in, sank his teeth into Lip-lip's hind leg.  Came the day when Grey Beaver, deciding that the liability of her running away was past, released Kiche.
But Baseek did not wait.  He considered the victory already his and stepped forward to the meat.  As he bent his head carelessly to smell it, White Fang bristled slightly.  Even then it was not too late for Baseek to retrieve the situation.  Had he merely stood over the meat, head up and glowering, White Fang would ultimately have slunk away.
Life itself was meat.  There were the eaters and the eaten.  The law was: EAT OR BE EATEN.  He did not formulate the law in clear, set terms and moralise about it.  He did not even think the law; he merely lived the law without thinking about it at all.
It was his old fighting trick.  Shoulder to shoulder, he struck her squarely.  Not only was she overthrown.  White Fang did not wait.  The way was clear, and that was all he had wanted.
(He had been out all night on the meat-trail, and had but just then awakened.  )  And his carelessness might have been due to the familiarity of the trail to the pool.  He had travelled it often, and nothing had ever happened on it.  He went down past the blasted pine, crossed the open space, and trotted in amongst the trees.  Then, at the same instant, he saw and smelt.
Nor did he speak till he had taken his seat on the coffin and begun to eat.  I took six fish out of the bag.  I gave one fish to each dog, an',   six fish.  One Ear didn't get no fish.  I came back to the bag afterward    Henry stopped eating to glance across the fire and count the dogs.
His lost eye and his scarred muzzle bore evidence to the nature of his experience.  He had survived too many battles to be in doubt for a moment about what to do.  The battle began fairly, but it did not end fairly.  He was beset on either side by the merciless fangs of his erstwhile comrades.  Forgotten were the days they had hunted together, the game they had pulled down, the famine they had suffered.
He turned his head and blinked at the men who shouted, at the same time wagging his stump of a tail good-naturedly.  He was not afraid, but merely lazy.  Besides, it did not seem to him that it was intended he should fight with the dog he saw before him.  He was not used to fighting with that kind of dog, and he was waiting for them to bring on the real dog.  These were so many suggestions.
But they saw, up the trail, and not down, two men running with sled and dogs.  They were evidently coming down the creek from some prospecting trip.  At sight of the crowd they stopped their dogs and came over and joined it, curious to see the cause of the excitement.  White Fang had practically ceased struggling.  Now and again he resisted spasmodically and to no purpose.
At the rear limped the weak members, the very young and the very old.  At the front were the strongest.  Yet all were more like skeletons than full-bodied wolves.  Nevertheless, with the exception of the ones that limped, the movements of the animals were effortless and tireless.  Their stringy muscles seemed founts of inexhaustible energy.
One Ear strained the full length of the stick toward the intruder and whined with eagerness.  She's the decoy for the pack.  She draws out the dog an' then all  The fire crackled.  A log fell apart with a loud spluttering noise.  At the sound of it the strange animal leaped back into the darkness.
At such times reason fled from White Fang, and in his transports of rage he was even more mad than Beauty Smith.  Formerly, White Fang had been merely the enemy of his kind, withal a ferocious enemy.  He now became the enemy of all things, and more ferocious than ever.  To such an extent was he tormented, that he hated blindly and without the faintest spark of reason.  He hated the very wood of the pen that confined him.
The meat was good meat, and White Fang was hungry.  Bit by bit, infinitely cautious, he approached the hand.  At last the time came that he decided to eat the meat from the hand.  Also a low growl rumbled in his throat as warning that he was not to be trifled with.  He ate the meat, and nothing happened.
Beauty Smith replied with a grunt.  Scott turned his back on him, and returned to help the dog-musher, who was working over White Fang.  Some of the men were already departing; others stood in groups, looking on and talking.  Tim Keenan joined one of the groups.  If you want to keep out of trouble, you'll steer clear of him, that's my talk.
White Fang's snarling began with the movement, and increased as the movement approached its culmination.  But the moment before the rifle came to a level on him, he leaped sidewise behind the corner of the cabin.  Matt stood staring along the sights at the empty space of snow which had been occupied by White Fang.  The dog-musher put the rifle down solemnly, then turned and looked at his employer.  In the nature of things, and of intercourse with gods, something terrible awaited him.
Even a man- animal, a god, White Fang ignored, such was the terror he was in of losing his mother.  But gods are accustomed to being obeyed, and Grey Beaver wrathfully launched a canoe in pursuit.  When he overtook White Fang, he reached down and by the nape of the neck lifted him clear of the water.  He did not deposit him at once in the bottom of the canoe.  Holding him suspended with one hand, with the other hand he proceeded to give him a beating.
It had come down to him from a remote ancestry through a thousand thousand lives.  Fear!--that legacy of the Wild which no animal may escape nor exchange for pottage.  So the grey cub knew fear, though he knew not the stuff of which fear was made.  Possibly he accepted it as one of the restrictions of life.  For he had already learned that there were such restrictions.
The she-wolf had by now developed a ferocious temper.  Her three suitors all bore the marks of her teeth.  Yet they never replied in kind, never defended themselves against her.  But if they were all mildness toward her, they were all fierceness toward one another.  The three-year-old grew too ambitious in his fierceness.
nudging White Fang with his foot.  He opened his pocket-book and counted out the bills.  Beauty Smith put his hands behind his back, refusing to touch the proffered money.  Beauty Smith, his hands still behind him, began to back away.  Scott sprang toward him, drawing his fist back to strike.
Every rope was brought to a ring at the front end of the sled.  There was, furthermore, another virtue in the fan-formation.  The ropes of varying length prevented the dogs attacking from the rear those that ran in front of them.  For a dog to attack another, it would have to turn upon one at a shorter rope.  Thus, the dog behind could never catch up with the one in front.
Besides, there was his old antipathy to being touched.  He snarled more menacingly, crouched still lower, and still the hand descended.  Weedon Scott had believed that he was quick enough to avoid any snap or slash.  Scott cried out sharply with surprise, catching his torn hand and holding it tightly in his other hand.  Matt uttered a great oath and sprang to his side.
He did not calculate such things.  It was all automatic.  His eyes saw correctly, and the nerves carried the vision correctly to his brain.  The parts of him were better adjusted than those of the average dog.  They worked together more smoothly and steadily.
Then I counted the dogs an' there was still six of 'em.  Bill threw on more wood, before lighting his pipe.  He indicated the third person by a downward thrust of the thumb to the box on which they sat.  Bill opened his mouth to speak, but changed his mind.  Instead, he pointed towards the wall of darkness that pressed about them from every side.
He could not encounter that howling horde with his tail and hind-quarters.  These were scarcely fit weapons with which to meet the many merciless fangs.  So run away he did, violating his own nature and pride with every leap he made, and leaping all day long.  One cannot violate the promptings of one's nature without having that nature recoil upon itself.  And so with White Fang.
But the god made no hostile movement, and went on calmly talking.  But the god talked on interminably.  He talked to White Fang as White Fang had never been talked to before.  He talked softly and soothingly, with a gentleness that somehow, somewhere, touched White Fang.  In spite of himself and all the pricking warnings of his instinct, White Fang began to have confidence in this god.
With the bursting open of the door, the noise of their howling had increased tremendously.  This howling now bothered him.  His dream was merging into something else--he knew not what; but through it all, following him, persisted the howling.  And then he awoke to find the howling real.  There was a great snarling and yelping.
When he saw or heard her coming, he got up and walked off.  There was much in other matters for White Fang to learn.  Life in the Northland was simplicity itself when compared with the complicated affairs of Sierra Vista.  First of all, he had to learn the family of the master.  In a way he was prepared to do this.
He uttered a glad little cry and bounded to meet her, while the man-animals went back hastily several steps.  The she-wolf stood over against her cub, facing the men, with bristling hair, a snarl rumbling deep in her throat.  It was an exclamation of surprise.  The cub felt his mother wilting at the sound.  The cub could not understand.
In the midst of it, he heard something.  The Indians heard it too.  She was snarling as she ran.  She had heard the cry of her cub and was dashing to save him.  She bounded in amongst them, her anxious and militant motherhood making her anything but a pretty sight.
He tried to back away from her, oblivious to the fact that by his hold on her he dragged her after him.  A rain of pecks fell on his ill-used nose.  But as he lay there, suddenly there came to him a feeling as of something terrible impending.  The unknown with all its terrors rushed upon him, and he shrank back instinctively into the shelter of the bush.  As he did so, a draught of air fanned him, and a large, winged body swept ominously and silently past.
Here was mastery and power, something far and away beyond him.  The cub had never seen man, yet the instinct concerning man was his.  In dim ways he recognised in man the animal that had fought itself to primacy over the other animals of the Wild.  The heritage was too compelling for a wolf that was only a cub.  Had he been full-grown, he would have run away.
And it was he that first gripped another cub by the ear and pulled and tugged and growled through jaws tight-clenched.  And certainly it was he that caused the mother the most trouble in keeping her litter from the mouth of the cave.  The fascination of the light for the grey cub increased from day to day.  He was perpetually departing on yard-long adventures toward the cave's entrance, and as perpetually being driven back.  Only he did not know it for an entrance.
They come closer every night.  They could even see these forms move at times.  A sound among the dogs attracted the men's attention.  Full into the firelight, with a stealthy, sidelong movement, glided a doglike animal.  It moved with commingled mistrust and daring, cautiously observing the men, its attention fixed on the dogs.
It was farm-bred and fat and tender; and White Fang licked his chops and decided that such fare was good.  Later in the day, he chanced upon another stray chicken near the stables.  One of the grooms ran to the rescue.  He did not know White Fang's breed, so for weapon he took a light buggy-whip.  At the first cut of the whip, White Fang left the chicken for the man.
His whole demeanour, every action, was stamped with this purpose.  It puzzled White Fang.  Never had he seen such a dog.  It had no hair protection.  It was soft, and bled easily.
When he broke through into the ring, Beauty Smith was just in the act of delivering another kick.  All his weight was on one foot, and he was in a state of unstable equilibrium.  At that moment the newcomer's fist landed a smashing blow full in his face.  The newcomer turned upon the crowd.  He was in a rage himself--a sane rage.
She hung on, striving to press down with her teeth to the great vein where his life-blood bubbled.  The weasel was a drinker of blood, and it was ever her preference to drink from the throat of life itself.  The weasel let go the cub and flashed at the she-wolf's throat, missing, but getting a hold on the jaw instead.  The she-wolf flirted her head like the snap of a whip, breaking the weasel's hold and flinging it high in the air.  The cub experienced another access of affection on the part of his mother.
He did not know what love was.  He had no experience of love.  Kiche was a remote memory.  His allegiance to man seemed somehow a law of his being greater than the love of liberty, of kind and kin.  The spring of the year was at hand when Grey Beaver finished his long journey.
He watched his moving muscles and was interested in the cunning mechanism of his fingers.  He came out of a doze that was half nightmare, to see the red-hued she- wolf before him.  She was not more than half a dozen feet away sitting in the snow and wistfully regarding him.  The two dogs were whimpering and snarling at his feet, but she took no notice of them.  She was looking at the man, and for some time he returned her look.
couple of shots into 'em, they'd be more respectful.  They come closer every night.  They could even see these forms move at times.  A sound among the dogs attracted the men's attention.  Full into the firelight, with a stealthy, sidelong movement, glided a doglike animal.
Yet all were more like skeletons than full-bodied wolves.  Nevertheless, with the exception of the ones that limped, the movements of the animals were effortless and tireless.  Their stringy muscles seemed founts of inexhaustible energy.  They ran many miles that day.  They ran through the night.
This confusion in the front of the moving pack always caused confusion in the rear.  But the situation of the pack was desperate.  It was lean with long-standing hunger.  It ran below its ordinary speed.  At the rear limped the weak members, the very young and the very old.
He paused beside Scott and touched him on the shoulder, saying ominously:   wedging with the revolver muzzle.  But if it was a bluff he intended, it did not work.  Scott never desisted from his efforts, though he looked up coolly and asked:   The faro-dealer grunted.  you that's something I ain't worked out for myself.  I don't know how to   Tim Keenan continued standing over him, but Scott took no further notice of his presence.
There was one strange thing about this wall of light.  The grey cub could not understand this.  And after several such adventures, he left the walls alone.  In fact, the grey cub was not given to thinking--at least, to the kind of thinking customary of men.  His brain worked in dim ways.
He crawled the several steps toward the flame.  He heard Grey Beaver chuckle above him, and he knew the sound was not hostile.  Then his nose touched the flame, and at the same instant his little tongue went out to it.  For a moment he was paralysed.  The unknown, lurking in the midst of the sticks and moss, was savagely clutching him by the nose.
When the young leader lay in the snow and moved no more, One Eye stalked over to the she-wolf.  His carriage was one of mingled triumph and caution.  For the first time she met him with a kindly manner.  She sniffed noses with him, and even condescended to leap about and frisk and play with him in quite puppyish fashion.  And he, for all his grey years and sage experience, behaved quite as puppyishly and even a little more foolishly.
The fact that he had but one eye, and that the left eye, might account for this.  At such times her running mates flashed their teeth and growled threateningly across at each other.  They might have fought, but even wooing and its rivalry waited upon the more pressing hunger-need of the pack.  Nevertheless, he ran with his head even with the shoulder of his one-eyed elder.  Sometimes, however, he dropped cautiously and slowly behind and edged in between the old leader and the she-wolf.
It did not require much exertion to pick these quarrels.  All he had to do, when the strange dogs came ashore, was to show himself.  When they saw him they rushed for him.  It was their instinct.  Generation by generation, down all the generations, had this fear of the Wild been stamped into their natures.
It was the final word.  He could not go beyond it.  The one thing of which he had always been particularly jealous was his head.  He had always disliked to have it touched.  It was the mandate of his instinct that that head must be free.
The life that was within him knew that it was the one way out, the way he was predestined to tread.  But he himself did not know anything about it.  He did not know there was any outside at all.  There was one strange thing about this wall of light.  The grey cub could not understand this.
White Fang did not run away, though he was allowed to remain loose, because he liked this new god.  The lordship of man was a need of his nature.  And so, because he needed a god and because he preferred Weedon Scott to Beauty Smith, White Fang remained.  In acknowledgment of fealty, he proceeded to take upon himself the guardianship of his master's property.  It was a matter of principle and conscience.
By it White Fang knew whether he did right or not.  By it he trimmed his conduct and adjusted his actions.  It was the compass by which he steered and learned to chart the manners of a new land and life.  In the Northland, the only domesticated animal was the dog.  All other animals lived in the Wild, and were, when not too formidable, lawful spoil for any dog.
There was a greater movement.  He tugged still harder, and repeatedly, until the whole tepee was in motion.  Then the sharp cry of a squaw inside sent him scampering back to Kiche.  But after that he was afraid no more of the looming bulks of the tepees.  A moment later he was straying away again from his mother.
Never, in that period, did any of them crawl toward the dark corners of the back-wall.  They were always crawling and sprawling toward it, and being driven back from it by their mother.  It was in this way that the grey cub learned other attributes of his mother than the soft, soothing, tongue.  These were conscious actions, and were the results of his first generalisations upon the world.  Before that he had recoiled automatically from hurt, as he had crawled automatically toward the light.
His allegiance to man seemed somehow a law of his being greater than the love of liberty, of kind and kin.  The spring of the year was at hand when Grey Beaver finished his long journey.  Though a long way from his full growth, White Fang, next to Lip-lip, was the largest yearling in the village.  But he had not yet grown compact.  While Baseek had been growing weaker with age, White Fang had been growing stronger with youth.
So he sat on his haunches, conspicuously in an open space, and challenged the hawk down out of the sky.  For he knew that there, floating in the blue above him, was meat, the meat his stomach yearned after so insistently.  The she-wolf brought home meat.  It was strange meat, different from any she had ever brought before.  It was a lynx kitten, partly grown, like the cub, but not so large.
It had come down to him from a remote ancestry through a thousand thousand lives.  Fear!--that legacy of the Wild which no animal may escape nor exchange for pottage.  So the grey cub knew fear, though he knew not the stuff of which fear was made.  Possibly he accepted it as one of the restrictions of life.  For he had already learned that there were such restrictions.
Their bodies were covered with fur and soft-tanned leather.  This gave them the seeming of ghostly masques, undertakers in a spectral world at the funeral of some ghost.  They travelled on without speech, saving their breath for the work of their bodies.  On every side was the silence, pressing upon them with a tangible presence.  It affected their minds as the many atmospheres of deep water affect the body of the diver.
undercloths, and the growing stain of red.  The dog-musher surveyed the stricken dog.  He had sunk down on the snow in the circle of his blood and was plainly in the last gasp.  White Fang's meat, an' he's dead-O.  That was to be expected.
Before the day was out, White Fang was to learn more about this law.  Mit- sah, alone, gathering firewood in the forest, encountered the boy that had been bitten.  With him were other boys.  Then all the boys attacked Mit-sah.  It was going hard with him.
Copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:  1.  7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.  7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder.  1 with active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project Gutenberg-tm License.
Locked in the yard and there deserted by the master, White Fang lay down and went to sleep.  Once he got up and walked over to the trough for a drink of water.  The chickens he calmly ignored.  So far as he was concerned they did not exist.  He had learned the law.
The business of love was at hand--ever a sterner and crueller business than that of food-getting.  And in the meanwhile, the she-wolf, the cause of it all, sat down contentedly on her haunches and watched.  She was even pleased.  And in the business of love the three-year-old, who had made this his first adventure upon it, yielded up his life.  On either side of his body stood his two rivals.
Here was meat and life, and it was guarded by no mysterious fires nor flying missiles of flame.  Splay hoofs and palmated antlers they knew, and they flung their customary patience and caution to the wind.  It was a brief fight and fierce.  The big bull was beset on every side.  He ripped them open or split their skulls with shrewdly driven blows of his great hoofs.
Then she sprang away, up the trail, squalling with every leap she made.  It was not until her racket had faded away in the distance and died out that One Eye ventured forth.  The porcupine met his approach with a furious squealing and a clashing of its long teeth.  It had been ripped almost in half, and was still bleeding profusely.  One Eye scooped out mouthfuls of the blood-soaked snow, and chewed and tasted and swallowed.
One hand extended outward and began to descend upon his head.  His soft snarl grew tense and harsh.  Suddenly he snapped, striking with his fangs like a snake.  The hand was jerked back, and the teeth came together emptily with a sharp click.  Beauty Smith was frightened and angry.
He was too quick for them, too formidable, too wise.  He avoided tight places and always backed out of it when they bade fair to surround him.  While, as for getting him off his feet, there was no dog among them capable of doing the trick.  His feet clung to the earth with the same tenacity that he clung to life.  White Fang was bitter and implacable.
She, too, soared high, but not so high as the quarry, and her teeth clipped emptily together with a metallic snap.  She made another leap, and another.  Her mate had slowly relaxed from his crouch and was watching her.  He now evinced displeasure at her repeated failures, and himself made a mighty spring upward.  His teeth closed upon the rabbit, and he bore it back to earth with him.
What was his god's was to be defended against all the world--even to the extent of biting other gods.  Not only was such an act sacrilegious in its nature, but it was fraught with peril.  Duty rose above fear, and thieving gods learned to leave Grey Beaver's property alone.  Also, he learned that but brief time elapsed between his sounding of the alarm and Grey Beaver coming to his aid.  He came to know that it was not fear of him that drove the thief away, but fear of Grey Beaver.
A lynx's lair is not despoiled with impunity.  In the full glare of the afternoon light, crouching in the entrance of the cave, the cub saw the lynx-mother.  The hair rippled up along his back at the sight.  Here was fear, and it did not require his instinct to tell him of it.  The cub felt the prod of the life that was in him, and stood up and snarled valiantly by his mother's side.
There could be but one result, and that was that his ferocity fed upon itself and increased.  In addition to being exhibited he was a professional fighting animal.  Usually this occurred at night, so as to avoid interference from the mounted police of the Territory.  After a few hours of waiting, when daylight had come, the audience and the dog with which he was to fight arrived.  In this manner it came about that he fought all sizes and breeds of dogs.
There was no whimpering nor wailing.  And there was a smell in the air of fish.  The famine was gone.  He came out boldly from the forest and trotted into camp straight to Grey Beaver's tepee.  It was about this time that the newspapers were full of the daring escape of a convict from San Quentin prison.
She came closer and closer.  The next moment she was at his throat, her teeth buried in his hair and flesh.  The weasel never relaxed her hold.  She hung on, striving to press down with her teeth to the great vein where his life-blood bubbled.  The weasel was a drinker of blood, and it was ever her preference to drink from the throat of life itself.
Mackenzie hounds, Eskimo and Labrador dogs, huskies and Malemutes--all tried it on him, and all failed.  He was never known to lose his footing.  Men told this to one another, and looked each time to see it happen; but White Fang always disappointed them.  Then there was his lightning quickness.  It gave him a tremendous advantage over his antagonists.
Its effect on him was that of an impression of power.  For this, likewise, he respected his mother.  She compelled obedience from him, and the older he grew the shorter grew her temper.  Famine came again, and the cub with clearer consciousness knew once more the bite of hunger.  The she-wolf ran herself thin in the quest for meat.
He slunk forlornly through the deserted camp, smelling the rubbish-heaps and the discarded rags and tags of the gods.  He came to where Grey Beaver's tepee had stood.  In the centre of the space it had occupied, he sat down.  He pointed his nose at the moon.  It was the long wolf-howl, full-throated and mournful, the first howl he had ever uttered.
She had known better than the blundering gods.  All her suspicions were justified.  Here was the ancient marauder up to his old tricks again.  But Collie did not give over, as was her wont, after a decent interval of chastisement.  Two nights later came the act, but on a more generous scale than the master had anticipated.
The stir of the life that was in him, the play of his muscles, was an unending happiness.  To run down meat was to experience thrills and elations.  His rages and battles were pleasures.  Terror itself, and the mystery of the unknown, led to his living.  And there were easements and satisfactions.
Once, he roused with a start and hastily got the axe out from underneath the lashings.  But for some time longer he sat and brooded, the two remaining dogs crouching and trembling at his feet.  He passed a rope over his shoulder, a man-trace, and pulled with the dogs.  At the first hint of darkness he hastened to make a camp, and he saw to it that he had a generous supply of firewood.  He fed the dogs, cooked and ate his supper, and made his bed close to the fire.
This jaw gave the impression of ferocious determination.  But something lacked.  Perhaps it was from excess.  Perhaps the jaw was too large.  At any rate, it was a lie.
They saw only the effects, and the effects were bad.  He found himself an outcast in the midst of the populous camp.  All the young dogs followed Lip-lip's lead.  There was a difference between White Fang and them.  But be that as it may, they joined with Lip-lip in the persecution.
Outside the pen, men would be gathering, and he knew that a fight was on.  He watched the door for his antagonist to enter.  The door would open, and thrust in upon him would come the awful electric car.  A thousand times this occurred, and each time the terror it inspired was as vivid and great as ever.  Then came the day when the last bandage and the last plaster cast were taken off.
A small number of white men lived in Fort Yukon.  These men had been long in the country.  They called themselves Sour-doughs, and took great pride in so classifying themselves.  For other men, new in the land, they felt nothing but disdain.  The men who came ashore from the steamers were newcomers.
He received it as a sign.  The days were growing longer.  The sun was returning.  But scarcely had the cheer of its light departed, than he went into camp.  With night came horror.
Tim Keenan joined one of the groups.  If you want to keep out of trouble, you'll steer clear of him, that's my talk.  He's all hunky with the officials.  'm, for all you can tell.  The dog-musher indicated White Fang with a backward thrust of his thumb.
One day While Fang encountered a young wolf, gaunt and scrawny, loose- jointed with famine.  As it was, he ran the young wolf down and killed and ate him.  Fortune seemed to favour him.  Always, when hardest pressed for food, he found something to kill.  Again, when he was weak, it was his luck that none of the larger preying animals chanced upon him.
Then he sallied forth.  The sled- dogs had forgotten his prowess.  They remembered only the latest, which was his weakness and sickness.  At the sight of him as he came out of the cabin, they sprang upon him.  doorway and looking on.
In turn he was an object of great curiosity to them.  His wolfish appearance caught their eyes at once, and they pointed him out to one another.  Not one succeeded in laying a hand on him, and it was well that they did not.  White Fang soon learned that very few of these gods--not more than a dozen--lived at this place.  The white men came from off these steamers and went away on them again.
The beating that had gone before was as nothing compared with the beating he now received.  Grey Beaver's wrath was terrible; likewise was White Fang's fright.  Again, and this time with purpose, did Grey Beaver kick him.  White Fang did not repeat his attack on the foot.  He had learned another lesson of his bondage.
He shrank down under it.  It followed down after him, pressing more closely against him.  Shrinking, almost shivering, he still managed to hold himself together.  It was a torment, this hand that touched him and violated his instinct.  He could not forget in a day all the evil that had been wrought him at the hands of men.
So he lay down, in a comfortable crouching position, his nose fully a foot away, and out of the line of the tail.  Thus he waited, keeping perfectly quiet.  There was no telling.  Something might happen.  The porcupine might unroll.
There was reason for it, and none knew it better than she.  A lynx's lair is not despoiled with impunity.  In the full glare of the afternoon light, crouching in the entrance of the cave, the cub saw the lynx-mother.  The hair rippled up along his back at the sight.  Here was fear, and it did not require his instinct to tell him of it.
He crouched and bristled a little at the thought of it.  Then he went forward again.  He feared and disliked the beating he knew to be waiting for him.  He came cringing and crawling into the firelight.  Grey Beaver saw him, and stopped munching the tallow.
He clung on for a moment, long enough to drag the god over backward.  Together they crashed to the floor.  White Fang leaped clear, and, as the man struggled to rise, was in again with the slashing fangs.  Sierra Vista awoke in alarm.  The noise from downstairs was as that of a score of battling fiends.
Then there were cats, and rabbits, and turkeys; all these he must let alone.  In fact, when he had but partly learned the law, his impression was that he must leave all live things alone.  Out in the back-pasture, a quail could flutter up under his nose unharmed.  All tense and trembling with eagerness and desire, he mastered his instinct and stood still.  He was obeying the will of the gods.
Then he fought, his teeth flashing in a snap that sank them into the hand.  The next moment he received a clout alongside the head that knocked him over on his side.  Then all fight fled out of him.  His puppyhood and the instinct of submission took charge of him.  He sat up on his haunches and ki-yi'd.
The bulging back of Cherokee's neck was the only portion of his body that White Fang's teeth could reach.  He spasmodically ripped and tore with his fangs for a space.  Then a change in their position diverted him.  The bull-dog had managed to roll him over on his back, and still hanging on to his throat, was on top of him.  There was no escaping that grip.
Likewise he was made dizzy by this abrupt and tremendous extension of space.  At first, the wall had leaped beyond his vision.  He now saw it again; but it had taken upon itself a remarkable remoteness.  Also, its appearance had changed.  A great fear came upon him.
The children welcomed White Fang with glad cries and ran to meet him.  He avoided them and passed down the porch, but they cornered him against a rocking-chair and the railing.  He growled and tried to push by them.  Their mother looked apprehensively in their direction.  Growling savagely, White Fang sprang out of the corner, overturning the boy and the girl.
But now his waning powers would not permit such a course.  He bristled fiercely and looked ominously across the shin-bone at White Fang.  And right here Baseek erred.  Had he contented himself with looking fierce and ominous, all would have been well.  White Fang, on the verge of retreat, would have retreated, leaving the meat to him.
Yet he knew that it was not permitted him to pursue and drag them down.  Nevertheless, White Fang was not quite satisfied with the arrangement.  He had no abstract ideas about justice and fair play.  He forgot that in the covenant entered into between him and the gods they were pledged to care for him and defend him.  But one day the master sprang from the carriage, whip in hand, and gave the stone-throwers a thrashing.
But the blow did not fall.  The sapling remained bent above him.  Yet the warm blood of the rabbit tasted good in his mouth.  It was his mate who relieved him from the quandary in which he found himself.  Then, between them, the she-wolf and One Eye devoured the game which the mysterious sapling had caught for them.
The puppy's name, as White Fang was afterward to hear him called, was Lip-lip.  He had had experience in puppy fights and was already something of a bully.  They half circled about each other, tentatively, snarling and bristling.  This lasted several minutes, and White Fang was beginning to enjoy it, as a sort of game.  But suddenly, with remarkable swiftness, Lip-lip leaped in, delivering a slashing snap, and leaped away again.
They had hurt only the flesh of him; beneath the flesh the spirit had still raged, splendid and invincible.  But with the master the cuff was always too light to hurt the flesh.  It was an expression of the master's disapproval, and White Fang's spirit wilted under it.  In point of fact, the cuff was rarely administered.  The master's voice was sufficient.
The laughter of men was a hateful thing.  They might laugh among themselves about anything they pleased except himself, and he did not mind.  But the moment laughter was turned upon him he would fly into a most terrible rage.  Grave, dignified, sombre, a laugh made him frantic to ridiculousness.  It so outraged him and upset him that for hours he would behave like a demon.
It was a matter of principle and conscience.  He felt that the ill done White Fang was a debt incurred by man and that it must be paid.  So he went out of his way to be especially kind to the Fighting Wolf.  Each day he made it a point to caress and pet White Fang, and to do it at length.  At first suspicious and hostile, White Fang grew to like this petting.
In spite of the menacing hand, the voice inspired confidence.  And in spite of the assuring voice, the hand inspired distrust.  White Fang was torn by conflicting feelings, impulses.  He snarled and bristled and flattened his ears.  But he neither snapped nor sprang away.
White Fang trembled with fear, and though the impulse came to crawl out of his hiding-place, he resisted it.  After a time the voices died away, and some time after that he crept out to enjoy the success of his undertaking.  Darkness was coming on, and for a while he played about among the trees, pleasuring in his freedom.  Then, and quite suddenly, he became aware of loneliness.  He sat down to consider, listening to the silence of the forest and perturbed by it.
Lonely he had lived, so far as his kind was concerned, and lonely he would continue to live.  The natural course of his life had been diverted, and, recoiling from his kind, he had clung to the human.  Besides, all Southland dogs looked upon him with suspicion.  He, on the other hand, learned that it was not necessary to use his teeth upon them.  But there was one trial in White Fang's life--Collie.
There was nothing to do, nothing to see nor hear.  They strained to catch some interruption of the silence and immobility of nature.  They were appalled by inaction and by the feel of something terrible impending.  He gave a great start of fright.  A colossal and formless something was rushing across the field of his vision.
He took a step into the ring and pointed his finger at White Fang.  Then he began to laugh derisively and scornfully.  This produced the desired effect.  White Fang went wild with rage.  He called up his reserves of strength, and gained his feet.
When Weedon and Maud had first approached him, he growled warningly and looked malignant.  Later, he observed that the boy and girl were of great value in the master's eyes.  Then it was that no cuff nor sharp word was necessary before they could pat him.  Yet White Fang was never effusively affectionate.  When he could no longer endure, he would get up and stalk determinedly away from them.
It was the endurance of his mind that kept him going.  He had not eaten in forty hours, and he was weak with hunger.  The repeated drenchings in the icy water had likewise had their effect on him.  His handsome coat was draggled.  The broad pads of his feet were bruised and bleeding.
The thing to expect of them was the unexpected, and for this he must be prepared.  He travelled very clumsily.  He ran into sticks and things.  A twig that he thought a long way off, would the next instant hit him on the nose or rake along his ribs.  There were inequalities of surface.
And yet it was not physically painful.  On the contrary, it was even pleasant, in a physical way.  At the instant his voice broke the silence, White Fang leaped back, snarling savagely at him.  Matt regarded his employer with grieved disapproval.  It was the beginning of the end for White Fang--the ending of the old life and the reign of hate.
In the same way he accepted that his father could disappear into walls.  Logic and physics were no part of his mental make- up.  Like most creatures of the Wild, he early experienced famine.  There came a time when not only did the meat-supply cease, but the milk no longer came from his mother's breast.  At first, the cubs whimpered and cried, but for the most part they slept.
He sank his tiny teeth into one of the wings and pulled and tugged sturdily.  The ptarmigan struggled against him, showering blows upon him with her free wing.  It was his first battle.  He forgot all about the unknown.  He no longer was afraid of anything.
Then he smelled the strange fabric, saturated with the man-smell.  He closed on the canvas with his teeth and gave a gentle tug.  Nothing happened, though the adjacent portions of the tepee moved.  There was a greater movement.  He tugged still harder, and repeatedly, until the whole tepee was in motion.
But if they were all mildness toward her, they were all fierceness toward one another.  The three-year-old grew too ambitious in his fierceness.  He caught the one-eyed elder on his blind side and ripped his ear into ribbons.  His lost eye and his scarred muzzle bore evidence to the nature of his experience.  He had survived too many battles to be in doubt for a moment about what to do.
Sitting on the deck several feet away and watching wistfully was White Fang.  The dog-musher swore softly, in awe-stricken accents.  Scott could only look in wonder.  White Fang flattened his ears ingratiatingly, but remained where he was, making no attempt to approach.  Matt made a couple of steps toward White Fang, but the latter slid away from him.
And then, just as suddenly, like the sun rising on a stormy sea, they would begin to laugh.  But nobody else ever romped with White Fang.  He did not permit it.  He stood on his dignity, and when they attempted it, his warning snarl and bristling mane were anything but playful.  He loved with single heart and refused to cheapen himself or his love.
The other end of the stick, in turn, was made fast to a stake in the ground by means of a leather thong.  The dog was unable to gnaw through the leather at his own end of the stick.  The stick prevented him from getting at the leather that fastened the other end.  Henry nodded his head approvingly.  gnaw through leather as clean as a knife an' jes' about half as quick.
The horse stood saddled and waiting at the door.  White Fang hesitated.  Every rope was brought to a ring at the front end of the sled.  There was, furthermore, another virtue in the fan-formation.  The ropes of varying length prevented the dogs attacking from the rear those that ran in front of them.
Something was happening.  The porcupine had at last decided that its enemy had gone away.  Slowly, cautiously, it was unrolling its ball of impregnable armour.  It was agitated by no tremor of anticipation.  Slowly, slowly, the bristling ball straightened out and lengthened.
He struck Cherokee about the head savagely again and again.  But that did not loosen the jaws.  But no help was offered.  Instead, the crowd began sarcastically to cheer him on and showered him with facetious advice.  He shoved, and shoved hard, till the grating of the steel against the locked teeth could be distinctly heard.
The dog-musher indicated White Fang with a backward thrust of his thumb.  The other looked at him incredulously.  The dog-musher secured a club and went over to the chained animal.  White Fang watched the club after the manner of a caged lion watching the whip of its trainer.  Don't dast tackle me so long as I got that club handy.
But bit by bit, whenever the chance offered, he was getting more of the loose skin and fur in his mouth.  The result was that he was slowly throttling White Fang.  The latter's breath was drawn with greater and greater difficulty as the moments went by.  It began to look as though the battle were over.  The backers of Cherokee waxed jubilant and offered ridiculous odds.
His muzzle went up, his tail stiffened, and his nostrils dilated as he scented the air.  One foot also he held up, after the manner of a dog.  He was not satisfied, and he continued to smell the air, striving to understand the message borne upon it to him.  One careless sniff had satisfied his mate, and she trotted on to reassure him.  She crept out cautiously on the edge of a large open space in the midst of the trees.
He called up his reserves of strength, and gained his feet.  The basic life of him dominated him again, and his intelligence fled before the will of his flesh to live.  Shouts of of his tail.  But the clamour of approval did not distract him.  There was no sympathetic relation between his tail and his massive jaws.
He ran into sticks and things.  A twig that he thought a long way off, would the next instant hit him on the nose or rake along his ribs.  There were inequalities of surface.  Sometimes he overstepped and stubbed his nose.  Quite as often he understepped and stubbed his feet.
1 with active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project Gutenberg-tm License.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.  - You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.  - You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.  Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
It was an exclamation of surprise.  The cub felt his mother wilting at the sound.  The cub could not understand.  The awe of man rushed over him again.  His instinct had been true.
When he broke through into the ring, Beauty Smith was just in the act of delivering another kick.  All his weight was on one foot, and he was in a state of unstable equilibrium.  At that moment the newcomer's fist landed a smashing blow full in his face.  The newcomer turned upon the crowd.  He was in a rage himself--a sane rage.
Nor did he know the desperateness of her deed.  He knew only that the velvet- furred kitten was meat, and he ate and waxed happier with every mouthful.  A full stomach conduces to inaction, and the cub lay in the cave, sleeping against his mother's side.  He was aroused by her snarling.  Never had he heard her snarl so terribly.
They might be town-reared dogs, but the instinctive fear of the Wild was theirs just the same.  Not alone with their own eyes did they see the wolfish creature in the clear light of day, standing before them.  All of which served to make White Fang's days enjoyable.  If the sight of him drove these strange dogs upon him, so much the better for him, so much the worse for them.  They looked upon him as legitimate prey, and as legitimate prey he looked upon them.
The mother called them to her and comforted them, telling them not to bother White Fang.  As for his  He did not finish his sentence.  White Fang stood before him, growling fiercely.  White Fang turned to the love-master's wife.  She screamed with fright as he seized her dress in his teeth and dragged on it till the frail fabric tore away.
They half circled about each other, tentatively, snarling and bristling.  This lasted several minutes, and White Fang was beginning to enjoy it, as a sort of game.  But suddenly, with remarkable swiftness, Lip-lip leaped in, delivering a slashing snap, and leaped away again.  But Lip-lip had lived his life in camp and had fought many puppy fights.  Kiche licked White Fang soothingly with her tongue, and tried to prevail upon him to remain with her.
He turned and leaped silently among his enemies.  All three faced him.  There was a great snarling and growling, a clashing of teeth and a flurry of bodies.  The dust of the road arose in a cloud and screened the battle.  But at the end of several minutes two dogs were struggling in the dirt and the third was in full flight.
At sight of the crowd they stopped their dogs and came over and joined it, curious to see the cause of the excitement.  White Fang had practically ceased struggling.  Now and again he resisted spasmodically and to no purpose.  He could get little air, and that little grew less and less under the merciless grip that ever tightened.  When he saw White Fang's eyes beginning to glaze, he knew beyond doubt that the fight was lost.
He talked softly and soothingly, with a gentleness that somehow, somewhere, touched White Fang.  In spite of himself and all the pricking warnings of his instinct, White Fang began to have confidence in this god.  He had a feeling of security that was belied by all his experience with men.  After a long time, the god got up and went into the cabin.  White Fang scanned him apprehensively when he came out.
They might do as they pleased amongst themselves.  That was no concern of his.  He was a monstrous tyrant.  His mastery was rigid as steel.  He oppressed the weak with a vengeance.
***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WHITE FANG***   ******* This file should be named 910.  zip *******   This and all associated files of various formats will be found in: http://www.  org/dirs/9/1/910    Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will be renamed.  If you do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the rules is very easy.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.
She was even pleased.  And in the business of love the three-year-old, who had made this his first adventure upon it, yielded up his life.  On either side of his body stood his two rivals.  They were gazing at the she-wolf, who sat smiling in the snow.  But the elder leader was wise, very wise, in love even as in battle.
Always he was on the lookout for the trail of the gods where it might leave the river and proceed inland.  What if the trail of the gods led out on that side?  It never entered his head.  But that mental power was yet in the future.  Just now he ran blindly, his own bank of the Mackenzie alone entering into his calculations.  All night he ran, blundering in the darkness into mishaps and obstacles that delayed but did not daunt.
With the overthrow of Lip-lip, White Fang could have become leader of the pack.  But he was too morose and solitary for that.  He merely thrashed his team-mates.  Otherwise he ignored them.  They got out of his way when he came along; nor did the boldest of them ever dare to rob him of his meat.
Beginning here, as though regretting her parsimony, Nature had spread his features with a lavish hand.  His eyes were large, and between them was the distance of two eyes.  His face, in relation to the rest of him, was prodigious.  In order to discover the necessary area, Nature had given him an enormous prognathous jaw.  It was wide and heavy, and protruded outward and down until it seemed to rest on his chest.
Here, in the running stream where ice was beginning to form, he hid his trail.  Then he crawled into the heart of a dense thicket and waited.  The time passed by, and he slept intermittently for hours.  Then he was aroused by Grey Beaver's voice calling him by name.  There were other voices.
And then, one day, again out in the back-pasture, he saw Dick start a jackrabbit and run it.  The master himself was looking on and did not interfere.  Nay, he encouraged White Fang to join in the chase.  And thus he learned that there was no taboo on jackrabbits.  In the end he worked out the complete law.
And since he had not taken him with him before, so, now, he could look to be left behind.  That night he lifted the long wolf-howl.  Inside the cabin the two men had just gone to bed.  There was a grunt from Weedon Scott's bunk, and a stir of blankets.  The blankets in the other bunk stirred irritably.
These footprints were very fresh.  One Eye ran ahead cautiously, his mate at his heels.  The broad pads of their feet were spread wide and in contact with the snow were like velvet.  One Eye caught sight of a dim movement of white in the midst of the white.  His sliding gait had been deceptively swift, but it was as nothing to the speed at which he now ran.
His favourite way of ignoring her was to lie down, with his head on his fore-paws, and pretend sleep.  This always dumfounded and silenced her.  With the exception of Collie, all things went well with White Fang.  He had learned control and poise, and he knew the law.  He achieved a staidness, and calmness, and philosophic tolerance.
He could not encounter that howling horde with his tail and hind-quarters.  These were scarcely fit weapons with which to meet the many merciless fangs.  So run away he did, violating his own nature and pride with every leap he made, and leaping all day long.  One cannot violate the promptings of one's nature without having that nature recoil upon itself.  And so with White Fang.
Before he knew what he was doing, he had slashed the intruder twice and sprung clear.  Baseek was surprised by the other's temerity and swiftness of attack.  He stood, gazing stupidly across at White Fang, the raw, red shin-bone between them.  Baseek was old, and already he had come to know the increasing valour of the dogs it had been his wont to bully.  Bitter experiences these, which, perforce, he swallowed, calling upon all his wisdom to cope with them.
Together they crashed to the floor.  White Fang leaped clear, and, as the man struggled to rise, was in again with the slashing fangs.  Sierra Vista awoke in alarm.  The noise from downstairs was as that of a score of battling fiends.  There were revolver shots.
Not alone was he in the geographical Southland, for he was in the Southland of life.  Human kindness was like a sun shining upon him, and he flourished like a flower planted in good soil.  And yet he remained somehow different from other dogs.  He never chummed with other dogs.  Lonely he had lived, so far as his kind was concerned, and lonely he would continue to live.
The dog-musher laid his hand on Beauty Smith's shoulder and faced him to the right about.  No word needed to be spoken.  Beauty Smith started.  In the meantime the love-master was patting White Fang and talking to him.  It was in the air.
He cringed involuntarily under the expected blow.  He stole a glance upward.  Grey Beaver ordered meat to be brought to him, and guarded him from the other dogs while he ate.  When December was well along, Grey Beaver went on a journey up the Mackenzie.  Mit-sah and Kloo-kooch went with him.
He now saw it again; but it had taken upon itself a remarkable remoteness.  Also, its appearance had changed.  A great fear came upon him.  This was more of the terrible unknown.  He crouched down on the lip of the cave and gazed out on the world.
Then all the quills drooped quite down, and the body relaxed and moved no more.  With a nervous, shrinking paw, One Eye stretched out the porcupine to its full length and turned it over on its back.  Nothing had happened.  He recollected something, dropped the burden, and trotted back to where he had left the ptarmigan.  He did not hesitate a moment.
In order to discover the necessary area, Nature had given him an enormous prognathous jaw.  It was wide and heavy, and protruded outward and down until it seemed to rest on his chest.  Possibly this appearance was due to the weariness of the slender neck, unable properly to support so great a burden.  This jaw gave the impression of ferocious determination.  But something lacked.
White Fang looked on at first.  This was an affair of the gods, and no concern of his.  Then he realised that this was Mit-sah, one of his own particular gods, who was being maltreated.  It was no reasoned impulse that made White Fang do what he then did.  A mad rush of anger sent him leaping in amongst the combatants.
But there was no danger.  He did not question it, nor puzzle over it.  Five or six miles from the lair, the stream divided, its forks going off among the mountains at a right angle.  Here, leading up the left fork, he came upon a fresh track.  He smelled it and found it so recent that he crouched swiftly, and looked in the direction in which it disappeared.
With a snarl she sprang upon One Ear.  More wolves were appearing every moment and joining in the chase.  The she-wolf was one leap behind One Ear and holding her own.  Gun in hand, he plunged into the underbrush that lined the side of the trail.  His intention was apparent enough.
This lasted several minutes, and White Fang was beginning to enjoy it, as a sort of game.  But suddenly, with remarkable swiftness, Lip-lip leaped in, delivering a slashing snap, and leaped away again.  But Lip-lip had lived his life in camp and had fought many puppy fights.  Kiche licked White Fang soothingly with her tongue, and tried to prevail upon him to remain with her.  But his curiosity was rampant, and several minutes later he was venturing forth on a new quest.
They were gazing at the she-wolf, who sat smiling in the snow.  But the elder leader was wise, very wise, in love even as in battle.  The younger leader turned his head to lick a wound on his shoulder.  The curve of his neck was turned toward his rival.  With his one eye the elder saw the opportunity.
He suddenly thrust his head forward and nudged his way in between the master's arm and body.  And here, confined, hidden from view all except his ears, no longer growling, he continued to nudge and snuggle.  The two men looked at each other.  Scott's eyes were shining.  With the return of the love-master, White Fang's recovery was rapid.
He spasmodically ripped and tore with his fangs for a space.  Then a change in their position diverted him.  The bull-dog had managed to roll him over on his back, and still hanging on to his throat, was on top of him.  There was no escaping that grip.  It was like Fate itself, and as inexorable.
The cub came upon it suddenly.  It was his own fault.  He had been careless.  He had left the cave and run down to the stream to drink.  It might have been that he took no notice because he was heavy with sleep.
Each day he made it a point to caress and pet White Fang, and to do it at length.  At first suspicious and hostile, White Fang grew to like this petting.  But there was one thing that he never outgrew--his growling.  Growl he would, from the moment the petting began till it ended.  But it was a growl with a new note in it.
He made one desperate attempt to pull out on the trail.  But the moment he left the protection of the fire, the boldest wolf leaped for him, but leaped short.  He saved himself by springing back, the jaws snapping together a scant six inches from his thigh.  Even in the daylight he did not dare leave the fire to chop fresh wood.  Twenty feet away towered a huge dead spruce.
Locked in the yard and there deserted by the master, White Fang lay down and went to sleep.  Once he got up and walked over to the trough for a drink of water.  The chickens he calmly ignored.  So far as he was concerned they did not exist.  He had learned the law.
She, too, soared high, but not so high as the quarry, and her teeth clipped emptily together with a metallic snap.  She made another leap, and another.  Her mate had slowly relaxed from his crouch and was watching her.  He now evinced displeasure at her repeated failures, and himself made a mighty spring upward.  His teeth closed upon the rabbit, and he bore it back to earth with him.
Several times they encountered solitary wolves.  These were always males, and they were pressingly insistent on joining with One Eye and his mate.  One moonlight night, running through the quiet forest, One Eye suddenly halted.  His muzzle went up, his tail stiffened, and his nostrils dilated as he scented the air.  One foot also he held up, after the manner of a dog.
He had lain so long that his muscles had lost their cunning, and all the strength had gone out of them.  Judge Scott surveyed them triumphantly.  And outside he went, like a king, with all Sierra Vista about him and tending on him.  He was very weak, and when he reached the lawn he lay down and rested for a while.  White Fang looked on with a wondering eye.
The land itself ceased at the county road.  Outside was the common domain of all gods--the roads and streets.  Then inside other fences were the particular domains of other gods.  He obeyed his natural impulses until they ran him counter to some law.  When this had been done a few times, he learned the law and after that observed it.
His hair was standing out all over him in tufts where her teeth had mauled.  He stood where he had arisen, opened his mouth, and broke out the long, heart-broken puppy wail.  But even this he was not allowed to complete.  In the middle of it, White Fang, rushing in, sank his teeth into Lip-lip's hind leg.  Came the day when Grey Beaver, deciding that the liability of her running away was past, released Kiche.
White Fang knew nothing about fire.  It drew him as the light, in the mouth of the cave had drawn him in his early puppyhood.  He crawled the several steps toward the flame.  He heard Grey Beaver chuckle above him, and he knew the sound was not hostile.  Then his nose touched the flame, and at the same instant his little tongue went out to it.
They were all on their feet now, and White Fang ran down the steps, looking back for them to follow.  For the second and last time in his life he had barked and made himself understood.  The days came and went, streaming their unbroken sunshine over the Santa Clara Valley.  But as they grew shorter and White Fang's second winter in the Southland came on, he made a strange discovery.  Collie's teeth were no longer sharp.
And White Fang just as bitterly hated them back.  Being sled-leader was anything but gratifying to him.  But endure it he must, or perish, and the life that was in him had no desire to perish out.  There was no defence for him.  If he turned upon them, Mit-sah would throw the stinging lash of the whip into his face.
He crawled straight toward Grey Beaver, every inch of his progress becoming slower and more painful.  At last he lay at the master's feet, into whose possession he now surrendered himself, voluntarily, body and soul.  Of his own choice, he came in to sit by man's fire and to be ruled by him.  White Fang trembled, waiting for the punishment to fall upon him.  There was a movement of the hand above him.
Otherwise he ignored them.  They got out of his way when he came along; nor did the boldest of them ever dare to rob him of his meat.  On the contrary, they devoured their own meat hurriedly, for fear that he would take it away from them.  White Fang knew the law well: _to oppress the weak and obey the strong_.  He ate his share of meat as rapidly as he could.
There might be opportunity for a deft and ripping thrust of paw into the tender, unguarded belly.  But at the end of half an hour he arose, growled wrathfully at the motionless ball, and trotted on.  He had waited too often and futilely in the past for porcupines to unroll, to waste any more time.  He continued up the right fork.  The day wore along, and nothing rewarded his hunt.
When this had been done a few times, he learned the law and after that observed it.  But most potent in his education was the cuff of the master's hand, the censure of the master's voice.  They had hurt only the flesh of him; beneath the flesh the spirit had still raged, splendid and invincible.  But with the master the cuff was always too light to hurt the flesh.  It was an expression of the master's disapproval, and White Fang's spirit wilted under it.
His school of life had been sterner, and he was himself of sterner stuff.  He had too great vitality.  His clutch on life was too strong.  But he was very sick.  At first he was unable to drag himself along, and Beauty Smith had to wait half-an-hour for him.
Besides, it was not fear, but terror, that convulsed him.  But the slope grew more gradual, and its base was grass-covered.  Here the cub lost momentum.  When at last he came to a stop, he gave one last agonised yell and then a long, whimpering wail.  After that he sat up and gazed about him, as might the first man of the earth who landed upon Mars.
The porcupine rolled itself into a ball, radiating long, sharp needles in all directions that defied attack.  So he lay down, in a comfortable crouching position, his nose fully a foot away, and out of the line of the tail.  Thus he waited, keeping perfectly quiet.  There was no telling.  Something might happen.
He could not tolerate them.  When they came near with their ominous hands, he got up.  In this village, after the custom of all dogs in all villages, White Fang went foraging, for food.  A boy was chopping frozen moose-meat with an axe, and the chips were flying in the snow.  White Fang, sliding by in quest of meat, stopped and began to eat the chips.
It was colossal, stunning.  White Fang was awed.  And there were so many gods!  He was made dizzy by the swarming of them.  The thunder of the streets smote upon his ears.  He was bewildered by the tremendous and endless rush and movement of things.
But he had little time to marvel at the transformation.  He accepted it as he accepted all the unaccountable doings and manifestations of the gods.  There was a carriage waiting.  A man and a woman approached the master.  wouldn't stand for it.
In midsummer White Fang had an experience.  He paused and looked at her.  He remembered her vaguely, but he _remembered_ her, and that was more than could be said for her.  She lifted her lip at him in the old snarl of menace, and his memory became clear.  His forgotten cubhood, all that was associated with that familiar snarl, rushed back to him.
He sorrowed too loudly and woke up Grey Beaver, who beat him.  After that he mourned gently when the gods were around.  But the memory of his mother held him.  As the hunting man-animals went out and came back, so she would come back to the village some time.  So he remained in his bondage waiting for her.
He had travelled it often, and nothing had ever happened on it.  He went down past the blasted pine, crossed the open space, and trotted in amongst the trees.  Then, at the same instant, he saw and smelt.  Before him, sitting silently on their haunches, were five live things, the like of which he had never seen before.  It was his first glimpse of mankind.
One chance in a thousand is really optimistic.  He hasn't a chance  Weedon, telegraph at once to San Francisco for Doctor Nichols.  No reflection on you, doctor, you understand; but he must have the advantage  all that can be done for him.  He must be nursed as you would nurse a human being, a sick child.  And don't forget what I told you about  White Fang received the nursing.
He was jealous of the isolation in which he kept himself in the midst of the pack, and he fought often to maintain it.  But such fights were of brief duration.  He was too quick for the others.  As rigid as the sled-discipline of the gods, was the discipline maintained by White Fang amongst his fellows.  He never allowed them any latitude.
The carriage had driven away, and other strange gods had appeared from out the house.  White Fang, however, was beginning to tolerate this act.  No harm seemed to come of it, while the noises the gods made were certainly not threatening.  At such times White Fang leaned in close against the master's legs and received reassuring pats on the head.  steps and lain down to one side of the porch, still growling and keeping a sullen watch on the intruder.
The she-wolf was trotting wearily along, her mate well in advance, when she came upon the overhanging, high clay-bank.  She turned aside and trotted over to it.  She paused at the mouth of the cave and looked the wall over carefully.  Returning to the cave, she entered its narrow mouth.  The roof barely cleared her head.
He reached hastily for a brand to throw at her.  Never had he been so fond of this body of his as now when his tenure of it was so precarious.  All night, with burning brands, he fought off the hungry pack.  When he dozed despite himself, the whimpering and snarling of the dogs aroused him.  Morning came, but for the first time the light of day failed to scatter the wolves.
It was better to eat small live things like ptarmigan chicks, and to let alone large live things like ptarmigan hens.  May be there were other ptarmigan hens.  He would go and see.  He came down a shelving bank to the stream.  He had never seen water before.
Environment served to model the clay, to give it a particular form.  Thus, had White Fang never come in to the fires of man, the Wild would have moulded him into a true wolf.  There was no escaping it.  White Fang, seeming to sum up strength in all his qualities, nevertheless suffered from one besetting weakness.  He could not stand being laughed at.
It hummed and buzzed unceasingly.  He watched the man-animals coming and going and moving about the camp.  They were superior creatures, of a verity, gods.  To his dim comprehension they were as much wonder-workers as gods are to men.  They were fire-makers! They were gods.
Where the river swung in against precipitous bluffs, he climbed the high mountains behind.  Rivers and streams that entered the main river he forded or swam.  Always he was on the lookout for the trail of the gods where it might leave the river and proceed inland.  What if the trail of the gods led out on that side?  It never entered his head.  But that mental power was yet in the future.
There was much in other matters for White Fang to learn.  Life in the Northland was simplicity itself when compared with the complicated affairs of Sierra Vista.  First of all, he had to learn the family of the master.  In a way he was prepared to do this.  But in this matter there was a difference, and many differences.
He's just come through hell, an' this is the first time he's ben loose.  Give 'm a fair chance, an' if he don't   He walked over to White Fang and began talking to him gently and soothingly.  Scott shook his head and went on trying to win White Fang's confidence.  White Fang was suspicious.  Something was impending.
It was at Fort Yukon that White Fang saw his first white men.  As compared with the Indians he had known, they were to him another race of beings, a race of superior gods.  They impressed him as possessing superior power, and it is on power that godhead rests.  It was a feeling, nothing more, and yet none the less potent.  Those white gods were strong.
He avoided tight places and always backed out of it when they bade fair to surround him.  While, as for getting him off his feet, there was no dog among them capable of doing the trick.  His feet clung to the earth with the same tenacity that he clung to life.  White Fang was bitter and implacable.  The clay of him was so moulded.
For several minutes he was to all intents insane.  The basic life that was in him took charge of him.  The will to exist of his body surged over him.  He was dominated by this mere flesh-love of life.  All intelligence was gone.
This portion was composed of the non-killers and the small killers.  The other portion killed and ate his own kind, or was killed and eaten by his own kind.  And out of this classification arose the law.  The aim of life was meat.  Life itself was meat.
Baseek was old, and already he had come to know the increasing valour of the dogs it had been his wont to bully.  Bitter experiences these, which, perforce, he swallowed, calling upon all his wisdom to cope with them.  In the old days he would have sprung upon White Fang in a fury of righteous wrath.  But now his waning powers would not permit such a course.  He bristled fiercely and looked ominously across the shin-bone at White Fang.
They reminded him of children gathered about a spread table and awaiting permission to begin to eat.  And he was the food they were to eat!  He wondered how and when the meal would begin.  As he piled wood on the fire he discovered an appreciation of his own body which he had never felt before.  He watched his moving muscles and was interested in the cunning mechanism of his fingers.  He came out of a doze that was half nightmare, to see the red-hued she- wolf before him.
He was afraid of them.  But in a short while his fear of the tepees passed away.  After a time, he left Kiche's side and crawled cautiously toward the wall of the nearest tepee.  The last few inches to the wall of the tepee were crawled with painful slowness and precaution.  The day's events had prepared him for the unknown to manifest itself in most stupendous and unthinkable ways.
Midway in the passage, the current picked up the cub and swept him downstream.  He was caught in the miniature rapid at the bottom of the pool.  Here was little chance for swimming.  The quiet water had become suddenly angry.  Sometimes he was under, sometimes on top.
Redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works  1.  or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the United States.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work.
Just now he ran blindly, his own bank of the Mackenzie alone entering into his calculations.  All night he ran, blundering in the darkness into mishaps and obstacles that delayed but did not daunt.  It was the endurance of his mind that kept him going.  He had not eaten in forty hours, and he was weak with hunger.  The repeated drenchings in the icy water had likewise had their effect on him.
His eyes were likewise greeted by White Fang, but about the latter there were no signs of shame nor guilt.  He carried himself with pride, as though, forsooth, he had achieved a deed praiseworthy and meritorious.  There was about him no consciousness of sin.  The master's lips tightened as he faced the disagreeable task.  Then he talked harshly to the unwitting culprit, and in his voice there was nothing but godlike wrath.
He never left this cell.  He never saw the sky nor the sunshine.  Day was a twilight and night was a black silence.  He was in an iron tomb, buried alive.  He saw no human face, spoke to no human thing.
It was evidently an affair of moment.  Suddenly he saw a strange thing like mist beginning to arise from the sticks and moss beneath Grey Beaver's hands.  White Fang knew nothing about fire.  It drew him as the light, in the mouth of the cave had drawn him in his early puppyhood.  He crawled the several steps toward the flame.
They learned that it was when a steamer first tied to the bank that they had their fun.  One white man, having seen his dog, a setter, torn to pieces before his eyes, drew a revolver.  White Fang enjoyed it all.  He did not love his kind, and he was shrewd enough to escape hurt himself.  At first, the killing of the white men's dogs had been a diversion.
The business of love was at hand--ever a sterner and crueller business than that of food-getting.  And in the meanwhile, the she-wolf, the cause of it all, sat down contentedly on her haunches and watched.  She was even pleased.  And in the business of love the three-year-old, who had made this his first adventure upon it, yielded up his life.  On either side of his body stood his two rivals.
A moment later he was inside the house, and the slaughter began.  He whistled to himself, softly, first with surprise, and then, at the end, with admiration.  His eyes were likewise greeted by White Fang, but about the latter there were no signs of shame nor guilt.  He carried himself with pride, as though, forsooth, he had achieved a deed praiseworthy and meritorious.  There was about him no consciousness of sin.
One day, three dogs were turned in upon him in succession.  Another day a full-grown wolf, fresh-caught from the Wild, was shoved in through the door of the pen.  And on still another day two dogs were set against him at the same time.  This was his severest fight, and though in the end he killed them both he was himself half killed in doing it.  He raged and snarled at them, or lay quietly and studied them with cold hatred.
He snarled softly up at the thing of fear, watching keenly the deportment of the hands.  One hand extended outward and began to descend upon his head.  His soft snarl grew tense and harsh.  Suddenly he snapped, striking with his fangs like a snake.  The hand was jerked back, and the teeth came together emptily with a sharp click.
It was a wistfulness bred of hunger, as cruel as its own fangs, as merciless as the frost itself.  It was large for a wolf, its gaunt frame advertising the lines of an animal that was among the largest of its kind.  The animal was certainly not cinnamon-coloured.  Its coat was the true wolf-coat.  Bill waved his hand at it threateningly and shouted loudly; but the animal betrayed no fear.
One portion was what his own kind killed and ate.  This portion was composed of the non-killers and the small killers.  The other portion killed and ate his own kind, or was killed and eaten by his own kind.  And out of this classification arose the law.  The aim of life was meat.
Henry leaped out of the blankets and to the dogs.  And so was recorded the second epitaph in two days.  A gloomy breakfast was eaten, and the four remaining dogs were harnessed to the sled.  The day was a repetition of the days that had gone before.  The men toiled without speech across the face of the frozen world.
At first suspicious and hostile, White Fang grew to like this petting.  But there was one thing that he never outgrew--his growling.  Growl he would, from the moment the petting began till it ended.  But it was a growl with a new note in it.  As the days went by, the evolution of _like_ into _love_ was accelerated.
White Fang had ceased eating, lost heart, and allowed every dog of the team to thrash him.  In the cabin he lay on the floor near the stove, without interest in food, in Matt, nor in life.  He had got upon his feet, his ears cocked towards the door, and he was listening intently.  A moment later, Matt heard a footstep.  The door opened, and Weedon Scott stepped in.
In San Quentin prison he had proved incorrigible.  Punishment failed to break his spirit.  He could die dumb-mad and fighting to the last, but he could not live and be beaten.  It was during Jim Hall's third term in prison that he encountered a guard that was almost as great a beast as he.  The guard treated him unfairly, lied about him to the warden, lost his credits, persecuted him.
He was always striving to attain it.  The life that was so swiftly expanding within him, urged him continually toward the wall of light.  The life that was within him knew that it was the one way out, the way he was predestined to tread.  But he himself did not know anything about it.  He did not know there was any outside at all.
The taste of it was good.  This was meat, the same as his mother gave him, only it was alive between his teeth and therefore better.  So he ate the ptarmigan.  Nor did he stop till he had devoured the whole brood.  Then he licked his chops in quite the same way his mother did, and began to crawl out of the bush.
He was quick in his classification, for he knew them at once for man-animal noises.  A few minutes later the remainder of the tribe, strung out as it was on the march, trailed in.  But they displayed little difference from the wolf when they discovered the cub and his mother.  There was a great uproar.  Only a few seconds elapsed before he was on his feet again.
Forgotten were the days they had hunted together, the game they had pulled down, the famine they had suffered.  That business was a thing of the past.  The business of love was at hand--ever a sterner and crueller business than that of food-getting.  And in the meanwhile, the she-wolf, the cause of it all, sat down contentedly on her haunches and watched.  She was even pleased.
Matt made a couple of steps toward White Fang, but the latter slid away from him.  The dog-musher made a rush of it, and White Fang dodged between the legs of a group of men.  Ducking, turning, doubling, he slid about the deck, eluding the other's efforts to capture him.  But when the love-master spoke, White Fang came to him with prompt obedience.  days of gettin' acquainted.
He had ceased from his growling and stood, head up, looking into their faces.  At this moment speech came to White Fang, rushing up in a great burst of barking.  They were all on their feet now, and White Fang ran down the steps, looking back for them to follow.  For the second and last time in his life he had barked and made himself understood.  The days came and went, streaming their unbroken sunshine over the Santa Clara Valley.
In addition to being exhibited he was a professional fighting animal.  Usually this occurred at night, so as to avoid interference from the mounted police of the Territory.  After a few hours of waiting, when daylight had come, the audience and the dog with which he was to fight arrived.  In this manner it came about that he fought all sizes and breeds of dogs.  It was a savage land, the men were savage, and the fights were usually to the death.
But that was not all.  He suddenly thrust his head forward and nudged his way in between the master's arm and body.  And here, confined, hidden from view all except his ears, no longer growling, he continued to nudge and snuggle.  The two men looked at each other.  Scott's eyes were shining.
He backed farther away.  All the old memories and associations died down again and passed into the grave from which they had been resurrected.  He looked at Kiche licking her puppy and stopping now and then to snarl at him.  She was without value to him.  He had learned to get along without her.
He seemed made to run on for ever.  His iron-like body ignored fatigue.  Where the river swung in against precipitous bluffs, he climbed the high mountains behind.  Rivers and streams that entered the main river he forded or swam.  Always he was on the lookout for the trail of the gods where it might leave the river and proceed inland.
In all the days he had lived it had not worked so hard as on this one day.  Furthermore, he was sleepy.  He was sprawling along between some bushes, when he heard a sharp intimidating cry.  There was a flash of yellow before his eyes.  He saw a weasel leaping swiftly away from him.
This famine was not a long one, but it was severe while it lasted.  The cub found no more milk in his mother's breast, nor did he get one mouthful of meat for himself.  Before, he had hunted in play, for the sheer joyousness of it; now he hunted in deadly earnestness, and found nothing.  Yet the failure of it accelerated his development.  And there came a day when the hawk's shadow did not drive him crouching into the bushes.
He was very much alive, very happy, and very proud of himself.  The cub came upon it suddenly.  It was his own fault.  He had been careless.  He had left the cave and run down to the stream to drink.
Not only was his body tired with the adventures it had undergone, but his little brain was equally tired.  In all the days he had lived it had not worked so hard as on this one day.  Furthermore, he was sleepy.  He was sprawling along between some bushes, when he heard a sharp intimidating cry.  There was a flash of yellow before his eyes.
Thus he was on duty all the time, ever vigilant and faithful, the most valuable of all the dogs.  state that you was a wise guy all right when you paid the price you did for that dog.  Without warning, the love-master disappeared.  There had been warning, but White Fang was unversed in such things and did not understand the packing of a grip.  That night he waited for the master to return.
In fact, the grey cub was not given to thinking--at least, to the kind of thinking customary of men.  His brain worked in dim ways.  Yet his conclusions were as sharp and distinct as those achieved by men.  He had a method of accepting things, without questioning the why and wherefore.  In reality, this was the act of classification.
With the return of the love-master, White Fang's recovery was rapid.  Two nights and a day he spent in the cabin.  Then he sallied forth.  The sled- dogs had forgotten his prowess.  They remembered only the latest, which was his weakness and sickness.
It was not so much White Fang's ferocity as it was his silence that unnerved the groom.  Still protecting his throat and face with his torn and bleeding arm, he tried to retreat to the barn.  And it would have gone hard with him had not Collie appeared on the scene.  As she had saved Dick's life, she now saved the groom's.  She rushed upon White Fang in frenzied wrath.
He was given no rest.  Did he lie down to sleep, he was stirred up by a sharp stick--so that the audience might get its money's worth.  In order to make the exhibition interesting, he was kept in a rage most of the time.  But worse than all this, was the atmosphere in which he lived.  He was regarded as the most fearful of wild beasts, and this was borne in to him through the bars of the cage.
The fascination of the light for the grey cub increased from day to day.  He was perpetually departing on yard-long adventures toward the cave's entrance, and as perpetually being driven back.  Only he did not know it for an entrance.  He did not know anything about entrances--passages whereby one goes from one place to another place.  He did not know any other place, much less of a way to get there.
He was thinking rapidly.  The _Aurora's_ whistle hooted a final announcement of departure.  Men were scurrying down the gang-plank to the shore.  Matt loosened the bandana from his own neck and started to put it around White Fang's.  Scott grasped the dog-musher's hand.
He did not go down again.  Quite as though it had been a long-established custom of his he struck out with all his legs and began to swim.  The stream was a small one, but in the pool it widened out to a score of feet.  Midway in the passage, the current picked up the cub and swept him downstream.  He was caught in the miniature rapid at the bottom of the pool.
It was the same when he challenged the hawk down out of the sky.  Down out of the blue it would rush, as it dropped upon him changing itself into the ubiquitous electric car.  Or again, he would be in the pen of Beauty Smith.  Outside the pen, men would be gathering, and he knew that a fight was on.  He watched the door for his antagonist to enter.
He faced the boy, bristling and snarling, his sense of justice outraged.  He knew the law of forage.  All the wastage of meat, such as the frozen chips, belonged to the dog that found it.  He had done no wrong, broken no law, yet here was this boy preparing to give him a beating.  White Fang scarcely knew what happened.
Everybody, save Beauty Smith, looked apprehensively, the fear of the police strong upon them.  But they saw, up the trail, and not down, two men running with sled and dogs.  They were evidently coming down the creek from some prospecting trip.  At sight of the crowd they stopped their dogs and came over and joined it, curious to see the cause of the excitement.  White Fang had practically ceased struggling.
The dog-musher surveyed the stricken dog.  He had sunk down on the snow in the circle of his blood and was plainly in the last gasp.  White Fang's meat, an' he's dead-O.  That was to be expected.  I wouldn't   for?  You said yourself that he'd done right.
The water rushed into his lungs instead of the air that had always accompanied his act of breathing.  The suffocation he experienced was like the pang of death.  To him it signified death.  He had no conscious knowledge of death, but like every animal of the Wild, he possessed the instinct of death.  To him it stood as the greatest of hurts.
He could not understand at first.  Then he discovered it.  The wolves were gone.  Remained only the trampled snow to show how closely they had pressed him.  There were cries of men, and churn of sleds, the creaking of harnesses, and the eager whimpering of straining dogs.
But he had early discovered that one wall of his world was different from the rest.  This was the mouth of the cave and the source of light.  It had been an irresistible attraction before ever his eyes opened and looked upon it.  Always, in the beginning, before his conscious life dawned, he had crawled toward the mouth of the cave.  And in this his brothers and sisters were one with him.
This had constituted the clay of him, and it had not been kindly moulded by the world.  White Fang knew why he was being beaten.  Therefore, he had disobeyed the will of both the gods, and earned the consequent punishment.  He had seen dogs change owners in the past, and he had seen the runaways beaten as he was being beaten.  He was wise, and yet in the nature of him there were forces greater than wisdom.
They had hair instead of fur, and a few had very little hair at that.  And none of them knew how to fight.  As an enemy of his kind, it was in White Fang's province to fight with them.  This he did, and he quickly achieved for them a mighty contempt.  They rushed bellowing at him.
It was he who directed the pack's course on the heels of the she-wolf.  And it was he who increased the pace when he sighted the she-wolf, now trotting slowly across the snow.  She dropped in alongside by him, as though it were her appointed position, and took the pace of the pack.  He did not snarl at her, nor show his teeth, when any leap of hers chanced to put her in advance of him.  Nor was she above slashing his shoulder sharply on occasion.
While she accepted him because it was the mandate of the gods, that was no reason that she should leave him in peace.  Woven into her being was the memory of countless crimes he and his had perpetrated against her ancestry.  Not in a day nor a generation were the ravaged sheepfolds to be forgotten.  All this was a spur to her, pricking her to retaliation.  A feud, ages old, was between them, and she, for one, would see to it that he was reminded.
And every day thereafter found him out and ranging a wider area.  He was always a little demon of fury when he chanced upon a stray ptarmigan.  Never did he fail to respond savagely to the chatter of the squirrel he had first met on the blasted pine.  He never forgot the hawk, and its moving shadow always sent him crouching into the nearest thicket.  In the matter of meat, his luck had been all in the beginning.
It was not until her racket had faded away in the distance and died out that One Eye ventured forth.  The porcupine met his approach with a furious squealing and a clashing of its long teeth.  It had been ripped almost in half, and was still bleeding profusely.  One Eye scooped out mouthfuls of the blood-soaked snow, and chewed and tasted and swallowed.  This served as a relish, and his hunger increased mightily; but he was too old in the world to forget his caution.
But the moment he left the protection of the fire, the boldest wolf leaped for him, but leaped short.  He saved himself by springing back, the jaws snapping together a scant six inches from his thigh.  Even in the daylight he did not dare leave the fire to chop fresh wood.  Twenty feet away towered a huge dead spruce.  Once at the tree, he studied the surrounding forest in order to fell the tree in the direction of the most firewood.
In this manner it came about that he fought all sizes and breeds of dogs.  It was a savage land, the men were savage, and the fights were usually to the death.  Since White Fang continued to fight, it is obvious that it was the other dogs that died.  He never knew defeat.  His early training, when he fought with Lip-lip and the whole puppy-pack, stood him in good stead.
But there was one thing that he never outgrew--his growling.  Growl he would, from the moment the petting began till it ended.  But it was a growl with a new note in it.  As the days went by, the evolution of _like_ into _love_ was accelerated.  White Fang himself began to grow aware of it, though in his consciousness he knew not what love was.
Their bristly fur was rimed with frost.  Leather harness was on the dogs, and leather traces attached them to a sled which dragged along behind.  The sled was without runners.  It was made of stout birch-bark, and its full surface rested on the snow.  On the sled, securely lashed, was a long and narrow oblong box.
Whether out of compassion for them, or in furtherance of his own self-interests, it would be difficult to say.  He did not attempt to check her tears.  Work must be our salvation.  We must not give ourselves time to think, for in that direction lies madness.  distant past faced the same problems which we must face, possibly in these same primeval forests.
A glance within confirmed their worst fears.  Jane and Esmeralda were not there.  Instantly, Clayton, followed by the two old men, plunged into the jungle, calling the girl's name aloud.  For half an hour they stumbled on, until Clayton, by merest chance, came upon the prostrate form of Esmeralda.  He stopped beside her, feeling for her pulse and then listening for her heartbeats.
I had this story from one who had no business to tell it to me, or to any other.  When he received this appointment he was both elated and appalled.  For her sake he would have refused the appointment, but she would not have it so.  Instead she insisted that he accept, and, indeed, take her with him.  And here John, Lord Greystoke, and Lady Alice, his wife, vanished from the eyes and from the knowledge of men.
Tarzan examined these all minutely.  The photograph he liked most of all, for the eyes were smiling, and the face was open and frank.  The brilliant stones gleamed strangely against his smooth, brown hide.  It was the diary of John Clayton, Lord Greystoke--kept in French, as had always been his custom.  Early the following morning he set out, and, traveling rapidly, he came before midday to the clearing.
But after we were well under sail the truth came out.  This they buried well up on the island, and for three years they lived there in constant hope of being rescued.  One by one they sickened and died, until only one man was left, the writer of the letter.  He did not mention the mutiny or the chest of buried treasure.  Canler had asked for no security, and you know, dearie, what that will mean for me if papa cannot meet them.
He was silent for a moment.  Finally they passed the danger point, and Tarzan reduced their speed.  You are a gentleman, and gentlemen do not kill in cold  to himself.  Again they were silent for a time.  She did not reply at once, but he waited patiently.
For a long time this amused him, but finally tiring he continued his explorations.  B is for Boy, His first name is Joe.  The pictures interested him greatly.  But nowhere was pictured any of his own people; in all the book was none that resembled Kerchak, or Tublat, or Kala.  It was his first introduction to the letters of the alphabet, and he was over ten years old.
Another spear and then another touched him.  He closed his eyes and held his teeth firm set--he would not cry out.  He was a soldier of France, and he would teach these beasts how an officer and a gentleman died.  Tarzan of the Apes needed no interpreter to translate the story of those distant shots.  He was not interested in the location of the encounter, for he judged that that would soon be over.
there is among ourselves.  Today we may go out and stumble upon a lion which is over-timid--he runs away from us.  To-morrow we may meet his uncle or his twin brother, and our friends wonder why we do not return from the jungle.  For myself, I always assume that a lion is ferocious,   D'Arnot smiled.  The men laughed, all but D'Arnot.
He loaded one of the rifles and placed it within easy reach.  Then he went to the desk and took up the unsealed letter addressed to Tarzan.  Possibly it contained word that his people had but left the beach temporarily.  Very respectfully, WM.  An hour later he started up listening.
Ye saved my life once, and in return I'm goin' to spare yours, but that's all I can do.  quick they may even change their minds about giving ye that much show.  enough until help comes.  But  After he had left them they went silently below, each wrapped in gloomy forebodings.  Thus, in addition to the many necessities they had brought, there were also many luxuries.
dark and take the first train out of this forest.  Clayton, with Jane, the professor and Esmeralda occupied Clayton's car, while Tarzan took Mr.  Philander in with him.  Bless me!  But it is most  recall any of the details of the finding and burying of three skeletons    Mr.  Philander eyed Tarzan narrowly.
Had he remained too long? Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street toward the village gate.  The natives were not yet in sight, though he could plainly hear them approaching across the plantation.  They must be very near.  Like a flash he sprang across the opening to the pile of arrows.  The natives filed up the street, four of them bearing the dead body of Kulonga.
She opened her eyes.  Far below her lay the undergrowth and the hard earth.  About her was the waving foliage of the forest.  It was he!   almost fiercely.  They had come to a point beyond the fire now, and he had turned back to the clearing.
as Tarzan's savage cry came faintly to their ears.  the gorilla country.  The men crowded about Tarzan with many questions, but his only answer was a laughing depreciation of his feat.  But he was indeed a hero in the eyes of these men--men accustomed to hunting big game.  Incidentally, he had won ten thousand francs, for D'Arnot insisted that he keep it all.
discovered a runaway simian from the London Zoo who has brought back a European education to his jungle home.  What do you make of it,  Professor Archimedes Q.  Porter adjusted his spectacles.  professor turned slowly in the direction of the jungle.  growled the rat-faced sailor.
All were silent for a moment, and then Jane spoke.  will be glaring at him to-night, and at your comrade Lieutenant D'Arnot.  men from Captain Dufranne to assist us, and one of the prisoners to  the captain.  Then the two vessels were to leave with all the party.  Clayton shook his head.
William Cecil Clayton had imagined.  Two keen eyes had watched every move of the party from the foliage of a nearby tree.  Clayton had taken but a dozen steps.  The rat-faced sailor had half drawn his revolver; the other sailors stood watching the scene intently.  Professor Porter had already disappeared into the jungle, whither he was being followed by the fussy Samuel T.
and shaking her roughly.  where a mighty wall of roaring flames shut out the view.  A short run down the road brought her to a horrified stand, for there before her was another wall of flame.  Jane knew that it was useless again to attempt to force her way through the undergrowth.  She had tried it once, and failed.
I will hunt for you.  I am the greatest of the jungle fighters.  I will fight for you.  I am the mightiest of the jungle fighters.  You are Jane Porter, I saw it in your letter.
The man started in surprise, but with a bound was at the side of the sleeping man.  Shaking him roughly by the shoulder, he cried:   Clayton sprang to his feet.  He did not recognize the man, but he understood the words and was upon the veranda in a bound.  In an instant Esmeralda, Professor Porter and Mr.  Philander had joined the two men.
She did not lose consciousness, but she clung tightly to him, shuddering and trembling like a frightened deer.  Once he pressed his lips lightly upon her forehead, and she did not move, but closed her eyes and sighed.  She could not analyze her feelings, nor did she wish to attempt it.  She wondered and then she smiled.  Tarzan shook his head, and an expression of wistful and pathetic longing sobered his laughing eyes.
Instead, with all the assurance that deductive reasoning from a wrong premise induces in one, Mr.  Philander grasped Professor Archimedes Q.  Jane, turning at the cry, saw the cause of it lying prone upon the floor before them--the whitened skeleton of a man.  A further glance revealed a second skeleton upon the bed.  there was no panic in her fright.
This also he dragged to the side of the corpse.  Near the center of the clearing, and not far from the drum, or altar, he commenced to dig.  His brain told him that the chest contained something valuable, or the men would not have hidden it.  By the time Tarzan had hunted his way back to the vicinity of the cabin, feeding as he went, it was quite dark.  He had often wondered at the exact purpose of the lamps.
made a living from it, and been able to send Jane a trifle beside, each year.  She is planning on our going up there the first of the week.  Canler was about to reply, when the sound of footsteps came from the hall without, and Jane entered the room.  college tomorrow to pack his books.  I want you to be sure, papa, to indicate all that you can do without until fall.
I have enough money for two--enough for twenty.  Each man carrying a rifle and ammunition, beside bedding and some food and cooking utensils.  The latter seemed to Tarzan a most useless encumbrance, so he threw his away.  For a month they traveled north.  Sometimes finding food in plenty and again going hungry for days.
They were as hopelessly lost as though they suddenly had been transported to another world.  Philander was speaking.  Moslemism was, is, and always will be, a blight on that scientific progress which   Professor Archimedes Q.  Porter turned in the direction indicated by the nearsighted Mr.  The moonlight flooded the beach, and the strange group stood out in bold relief against the yellow sand.
She was the last to leave the cabin, returning on some trivial pretext after the others had started for the boat.  There was no response, and then D'Arnot placed his ear above the man's heart.  To his joy he heard its steady beating beneath.  The bullet had struck a glancing blow upon the skull.  There was an ugly flesh wound, but no signs of a fracture of the skull.
answered, his face drawn with fatigue and the sorrow he felt for poor D'Arnot and he emphasized the word before.  The girl's head went high.  Then he wrote upon a piece of paper and shoved it beneath the partition.  MY DEAR MISS PORTER:  I had no reason to insinuate what I did.  My only excuse is that my nerves must be unstrung--which is no excuse at all.
carry him and protect him.  What good will he be to the tribe?  None; only a burden.  And day by day his strength was increasing.  He was nearly ten before he commenced to realize that a great difference existed between himself and his fellows.  He attempted to obviate this by plastering himself from head to foot with mud, but this dried and fell off.
Tarzan of the Apes felt of each article, hefted the spears, smelled of nostrils.  As he took each article from the walls, he placed it in a pile in the center of the room.  Then he stood back, surveyed his work, and grinned.  Tarzan of the Apes enjoyed a joke.  But now he heard, outside, the sounds of many voices, and long mournful howls, and mighty wailing.
Then he went back again into the jungle and in a few minutes reappeared with a quantity of soft grasses and ferns.  Two more trips he made until he had quite a pile of material at hand.  Then they sat down together again upon the edge of the drum and tried to talk by signs.  The magnificent diamond locket which hung about Tarzan's neck, had been a source of much wonderment to Jane.  She pointed to it now, and Tarzan removed it and handed the pretty bauble to her.
suffer, Professor Porter, for you will be able to pay the Canler person     to whom it belonged.  I saw the sailors bury it, and, ape-like, I had to dig it up and bury it again elsewhere.  When D'Arnot told me what it was and what it meant to you I returned to the jungle and recovered it.  forty-one thousand dollars.  dark and take the first train out of this forest.
Then he stood back, surveyed his work, and grinned.  Tarzan of the Apes enjoyed a joke.  But now he heard, outside, the sounds of many voices, and long mournful howls, and mighty wailing.  Had he remained too long? Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street toward the village gate.  The natives were not yet in sight, though he could plainly hear them approaching across the plantation.
Again they stopped--beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now glued themselves.  beyond, she saw framed in the tiny square of the latticed window the head of a huge lioness.  The gleaming eyes were fixed upon her in intent ferocity.  The sight that met the poor woman's eyes was too much for the already overstrung nerves.  For what seemed an eternity the great brute stood with its forepaws upon the sill, glaring into the little room.
The men turned and looked at one another.  A great bitterness rose in his heart.  He would go away, far into the jungle and join his tribe.  Never would he see one of his own kind again, nor could he bear the thought of returning to the cabin.  And the Frenchman?  D'Arnot?  What of him?  He could get along as Tarzan had.
He wondered if she would fear him, and the thought all but caused him to relinquish his plan.  The ape-man knew no god, but he was as near to worshipping his divinity as mortal man ever comes to worship.  He wrote:   I am Tarzan of the Apes.  We live here together always in my house.  I will bring you the best of fruits, the tenderest deer, the finest meats that roam the jungle.
They flee man as man flees a pestilence.  This necessitated watching by day on Tarzan's part to discover where the arrows were being concealed.  The duties of kingship among the anthropoids are not many or arduous.  In the afternoon comes Thaka, possibly, to complain that old Mungo has stolen his new wife.  Whatever his decision, the apes accept it as final, and return to their occupations satisfied.
At eighteen he read fluently and understood nearly all he read in the many and varied volumes on the shelves.  High hills shut it off on three sides, the ocean on the fourth.  It was alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes.  Its untouched mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the human beasts beyond its frontier.  At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung, in single file, over the brow of a low hill.
But doubtless they were as ferocious and cruel as other men he had seen.  The fact that they alone of all the party were unarmed might account for the fact that they had killed no one.  They might be very different if provided with weapons.  As for the big black woman, she was evidently connected in some way to the girl, and so he liked her, also.  For the sailors, and especially Snipes, he had developed a great hatred.
Its untouched mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the human beasts beyond its frontier.  At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung, in single file, over the brow of a low hill.  Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and on each breast three concentric circles.  In the rear were a hundred warriors, similar in all respects to the advance guard.  Here there were no white men, no soldiers, nor any rubber or ivory to be gathered for cruel and thankless taskmasters.
What was once my dear little girl shall not lie alone and friendless in the awful jungle.  and when the spirit of her mother is abroad, it will find us together in death, as it has always found us in life.  The old man looked up, regarding the strong, handsome face of William Cecil Clayton intently.  Perhaps he read there the love that lay in the heart beneath--the love for his daughter.  Now they came back to him, one by one.
About her was the waving foliage of the forest.  It was he!   almost fiercely.  They had come to a point beyond the fire now, and he had turned back to the clearing.  Side by side they were walking toward the cottage.  Apes had written in English, and you could not understand a word of any  Again he laughed.
Others, again, searched the surrounding trees for fruit, nuts, small birds, and eggs.  And all the way Kala carried her little dead baby hugged closely to her breast.  Today there was no sign of the man about, and from where they watched they could see that the cabin door was open.  Slowly, cautiously, and noiselessly they crept through the jungle toward the little cabin.  On, on they came until Kerchak himself slunk stealthily to the very door and peered within.
But nowhere was pictured any of his own people; in all the book was none that resembled Kerchak, or Tublat, or Kala.  It was his first introduction to the letters of the alphabet, and he was over ten years old.  So what wonder that the little boy was quite at a loss to guess the meaning of these strange figures.  Near the middle of the book he found his old enemy, Sabor, the lioness, and further on, coiled Histah, the snake.  Oh, it was most engrossing!  Never before in all his ten years had he enjoyed anything so much.
He could not understand why.  Canler was a splendid match.  off first on one ground and then another.  I have always the feeling   relief marking his voice.  hanging about for months.
Cupboards and bookcases lined the walls.  Odd vases made by his own hand from the clay of the region held beautiful tropical flowers.  That he had been able to turn his hands at all to such unaccustomed labor was a source of mild wonder to him.  In his leisure Clayton read, often aloud to his wife, from the store of books he had brought for their new home.  This book he kept locked in a little metal box.
The day wore on, and still Tarzan of the Apes crouched above the unsuspecting woman at the cauldron.  Presently the workers in the fields returned.  The hunting warriors emerged from the forest, and when all were within the palisade the gates were closed and barred.  Many cooking pots were now in evidence about the village.  Suddenly there came a hail from the edge of the clearing.
Slowly the bullet head of the ape was being forced lower and lower upon his chest.  Tarzan knew what the result would be.  In an instant the neck would break.  Then there came to Terkoz's rescue the same thing that had put him in these sore straits--a man's reasoning power.  the jungle there is none so great.
With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair, but suddenly he relaxed and dropped back, smiling.  D'Arnot looked at him in surprise.  those fingerprints lay in the cabin of his father, and that all my life  The policeman looked up in astonishment.  Tarzan nodded his head.  For some time they stood there gazing out upon the busy throng beneath, each wrapped in his own thoughts.
She wished she had never met Clayton.  She was sorry that she had ever seen the forest god.  Even the turning of his head caused him such excruciating agony that he lay still with closed eyes for a long time.  D'Arnot wondered what fate lay in store for him now.  He could neither see nor hear any signs of life about him.
But nowhere was pictured any of his own people; in all the book was none that resembled Kerchak, or Tublat, or Kala.  It was his first introduction to the letters of the alphabet, and he was over ten years old.  So what wonder that the little boy was quite at a loss to guess the meaning of these strange figures.  Near the middle of the book he found his old enemy, Sabor, the lioness, and further on, coiled Histah, the snake.  Oh, it was most engrossing!  Never before in all his ten years had he enjoyed anything so much.
I will not return  His companions did not reply at once.  At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter's bent old shoulder.  Jane is beyond human assistance now.  What was once my dear little girl shall not lie alone and friendless in the awful jungle.  and when the spirit of her mother is abroad, it will find us together in death, as it has always found us in life.
A portion of his chest was laid bare to the ribs, three of which had been broken by the mighty blows of the gorilla.  Also, he was anxious to return to the cabin and continue his investigations of its wondrous contents.  So, early one morning, he set forth alone upon his quest.  He had in mind that no more would he run from the wanton attacks of old Tublat.  In another moment he was at the cabin, and after a short time had again thrown the latch and entered.
The sun was high in the heavens.  Tarzan had not broken fast this day, and it was many miles to where lay the toothsome remains of Horta the boar.  So he turned his back upon the village of Mbonga and melted away into the leafy fastness of the forest.  It was a well-laden Tarzan who dropped from the branches into the midst of the tribe of Kerchak.  With swelling chest he narrated the glories of his adventure and exhibited the spoils of conquest.
For an instant the scene was ludicrous; but only for an instant.  The man was small and rather old, so that the brutality of the act was thus accentuated.  The two sailors picked themselves up, the older man assisting his wounded comrade to rise.  Though the fellow's tone was surly, his words were evidently well meant.  There was in the whole atmosphere of the craft that undefinable something which presages disaster.
Between them and the enclosure stretched a cultivated field in which a number of negroes were working.  The two halted at the edge of the jungle.  Tarzan fitted his bow with a poisoned arrow, but D'Arnot placed a hand upon his arm.  And again he drew back his shaft.  MON DIEU! but you have much to learn.
Opening it they found a crude message printed almost illegibly, and with many evidences of an unaccustomed task.  The sight which met his eyes confirmed his worst fears.  Facing the little knot of officers was the entire motley crew of the Fuwalda, and at their head stood Black Michael.  Two of their number had gone down before the captain's revolver.  They lay where they had fallen between the combatants.
that time we'll have been able to make an inhabited coast somewhere and scatter a bit.  Then I'll see that yer gover'ment's notified where you be an' they'll soon send a man-o'war to fetch ye off.  In about an hour they returned and reported deep water through the passage as well as far into the little basin.  Before dark the barkentine lay peacefully at anchor upon the bosom of the still, mirror-like surface of the harbor.  But no pleas, or threats, or promises of reward could move him.
Among the other books were a primer, some child's readers, numerous picture books, and a great dictionary.  Beneath the picture were three little bugs--  BOY.  And now he had discovered in the text upon the page that these three were repeated many times in the same sequence.  Slowly he turned the pages, scanning the pictures and the text for a repetition of the combination B-O-Y.  Then he took another pencil, but this time he had a definite object in view.
The men jumped out and lifted the great chest to the sand.  They were on the north side of the point so that their presence was concealed from those at the cabin.  The men argued angrily for a moment.  Then the rat-faced one, with several companions, ascended the low bluff on which stood the tree that concealed Tarzan.  They looked about for several minutes.
that any of us need worry about our carrion-eating acquaintance.  He is only  The girl did not answer, but she felt her heart shrivel within her.  Slowly she turned and walked back to the cabin.  She tried to imagine her wood-god by her side in the saloon of an ocean liner.  She saw him as she introduced him to her friends--uncouth, illiterate--a boor; and the girl winced.
That you never came to make friends with us has been a great regret to us.  We should have liked so much to have seen and thanked our host.  There is another I should like to thank also, but he did not come back, though I cannot believe that he is dead.  I do not know his name.  He is the great white giant who wore the diamond locket upon his breast.
For a moment he stood without, listening intently.  There was no sound, and he glided into the semi-darkness of the interior.  Weapons hung against the walls--long spears, strangely shaped knives, a couple of narrow shields.  Several human skulls lay upon the floor.  Tarzan of the Apes felt of each article, hefted the spears, smelled of nostrils.
They have hidden it here because they intend returning for it later.  Tarzan dropped to the ground and commenced to examine the earth about the excavation.  He was looking to see if these creatures had dropped anything which he might like to own.  Soon he discovered a spade hidden by the underbrush which they had laid upon the grave.  He seized it and attempted to use it as he had seen the sailors do.
Greystoke never turned a hair, but stood eying the excited man with level gaze.  The fellow proved most ungrateful.  Fairly jumped at me like a mad dog.  are safely off the thing I shall spend my energies in looking after our own welfare.  And I rather fancy the first step to that end should be to go to our cabin and look over my revolvers.
Two more attempts he made to rejoin the tribe, but on each occasion he was set upon and driven away.  At last he gave it up, and turned, foaming with rage and hatred, into the jungle.  He was right above them when he discovered them.  One piercing scream escaped her lips as the brute hand clutched her arm.  Then she was dragged toward those awful fangs which yawned at her throat.
The commander selected twenty men and two officers, Lieutenant D'Arnot and Lieutenant Charpentier.  Immediately a boat's crew was ordered out and an attempt was successfully made to board the Arrow.  The sight that met the Frenchmen's eyes as they clambered over the ship's side was appalling.  A dozen dead and dying men rolled hither and thither upon the pitching deck, the living intermingled with the dead.  Two of the corpses appeared to have been partially devoured as though by wolves.
brain, superinducing total mental aberration.  Then he sat up and felt of various portions of his anatomy.  Whereupon he arose, and, bending a scathing glance upon the still prostrate form of Mr.  Philander, he said:   Mr.  Philander lifted his other eye out of the mud and gazed in speechless rage at Professor Porter.
Horrors!  The thing was quite close now.  He tried to scramble up the side of the cabin, and succeeded in catching a fleeting hold upon the thatched roof.  Philander, preceding it, was precipitated upon his back.  At the instant he fell a remarkable item of natural history leaped to his mind.  If one feigns death lions and lionesses are supposed to ignore one, according to Mr.
William Cecil Clayton had imagined.  Two keen eyes had watched every move of the party from the foliage of a nearby tree.  Clayton had taken but a dozen steps.  The rat-faced sailor had half drawn his revolver; the other sailors stood watching the scene intently.  Professor Porter had already disappeared into the jungle, whither he was being followed by the fussy Samuel T.
A quick jerk drew it taut.  With frightened shrieks they wheeled once more and plunged on in their efforts to escape.  Now indeed was he dressed as a man should be.  None there was who could now doubt his high origin.  How he should have liked to have returned to the tribe to parade before their envious gaze this wondrous finery.
He could make a killing and feast well this day.  On he hurried, his spear poised for the throw.  At a turning of the trail he came in sight of her again upon another straight stretch.  His spear hand went far back the muscles rolled, lightning-like, beneath the sleek hide.  Out shot the arm, and the spear sped toward Kala.
Esmeralda did as she was bade.  scarcely breathed as he voiced the horrible thought.  Esmeralda broke into uncontrollable sobbing.  Professor Porter finally broke the silence.  to-morrow, as soon as it is light, I shall take what food I can carry and continue the search until I have found Jane.
As for the big black woman, she was evidently connected in some way to the girl, and so he liked her, also.  For the sailors, and especially Snipes, he had developed a great hatred.  The ape-man, hiding safe behind a screen of foliage, sat watching this new specimen of his own race intently.  At intervals Clayton called aloud and finally it came to Tarzan that he was searching for the old man.  It was Sheeta, the leopard.
Then she extinguished the lamp and all within the cabin was wrapped in Cimmerian darkness.  Still Tarzan watched.  Creeping close beneath the window he waited, listening, for half an hour.  At last he was rewarded by the sounds of the regular breathing within which denotes sleep.  Cautiously he intruded his hand between the meshes of the lattice until his whole arm was within the cabin.
Noon found them but a few miles inland.  It was an old elephant track, and D'Arnot after consulting with Professor Porter and Clayton decided to follow it.  The path wound through the jungle in a northeasterly direction, and along it the column moved in single file.  Lieutenant D'Arnot was in the lead and moving at a quick pace, for the trail was comparatively open.  They did not know the cause of his outcry, only that it was a warning of danger ahead.
I shall leave the decision to you, for you know best  good man.  I could never face you nor any other honest person if I repudiated my promise to Mr.  In the center of the greensward a young woman sat upon a little mound of earth, and beside her sat a young giant.  They ate pleasant fruit and looked into each other's eyes and smiled.  They were very happy, and they were all alone.
One by one the tribe swung down from their arboreal retreats and formed a circle about Tarzan and his vanquished foe.  When they had all come Tarzan turned toward them.  of the Apes and Kala, his mother.  The morning after the Dum-Dum the tribe started slowly back through the forest toward the coast.  The body of Tublat lay where it had fallen, for the people of Kerchak do not eat their own dead.
The men crowded about Tarzan with many questions, but his only answer was a laughing depreciation of his feat.  But he was indeed a hero in the eyes of these men--men accustomed to hunting big game.  Incidentally, he had won ten thousand francs, for D'Arnot insisted that he keep it all.  It had become evident to Tarzan that without money one must die.  It was a happy morning for them both when the little vessel weighed anchor and made for the open sea.
As he had grown older, he found that he had grown away from his people.  Their interests and his were far removed.  Among the tribe he no longer had friends as of old.  Tarzan would have liked to subdue the ugly beast without recourse to knife or arrows.  Tarzan did not repeat his warning signal, but instead rushed bodily upon the waiting Terkoz.
Philander and Esmeralda.  From where Tarzan and the girl stood they could not see the two vessels lying at anchor in the harbor.  Tarzan pointed toward the sounds, touched his breast and pointed again.  He was going, and something told her that it was because he thought her people were in danger.  Again he kissed her.
It was a happy morning for them both when the little vessel weighed anchor and made for the open sea.  Not the least interesting to Tarzan was the part played by finger prints in this fascinating science.  The man left the room, but presently returned with a little hardwood box which he placed on his superior's desk.  just the same position upon this card, here, no--a little to the right.  We must leave room for the thumb and the fingers of the left hand.
Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her, as had the stalwart forest god.  Did she love him?  She did not know--now.  She glanced at Clayton out of the corner of her eye.  If he should never touch her again, she reasoned, she would never feel attracted toward him.  She had not loved him, then.
In the center of the greensward a young woman sat upon a little mound of earth, and beside her sat a young giant.  They ate pleasant fruit and looked into each other's eyes and smiled.  They were very happy, and they were all alone.  Tarzan took the envelope and tore it open.  The message was from D'Arnot.
Philander eyed Tarzan narrowly.  may clear up a mystery.  It can do no worse, at any rate, than to leave it still a mystery.  Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her, as had the stalwart forest god.  Did she love him?  She did not know--now.
answered, his face drawn with fatigue and the sorrow he felt for poor D'Arnot and he emphasized the word before.  The girl's head went high.  Then he wrote upon a piece of paper and shoved it beneath the partition.  MY DEAR MISS PORTER:  I had no reason to insinuate what I did.  My only excuse is that my nerves must be unstrung--which is no excuse at all.
Philander says that we can exist indefinitely on the wild fruit and nuts which abound in the jungle.  I am very tired now, so I shall go to my funny bed of grasses which Mr.  Clayton gathered for me, but will add to this from day to day as things happen.  Lovingly, JANE PORTER.  TO HAZEL STRONG, BALTIMORE, MD.
The bullet had but inflicted a painful wound in one of the great shoulders.  It was the surprise at the blinding flash and the deafening roar that had caused her hasty but temporary retreat.  She saw her prey--the two women--lying senseless upon the floor.  There was no longer any resistance to be overcome.  Her meat lay before her, and Sabor had only to worm her way through the lattice to claim it.
Tarzan of the Apes was fascinated.  Here was the secret of the terrible destructiveness of The Archer's tiny missiles.  How he should like to have more of those little death-dealing slivers.  As he was trying to think out some plan to distract her attention he heard a wild cry from across the clearing.  The fellow was shouting and waving his spear above his head.
It was the signal for fifty others.  The women and children shrieked their delight.  Then it was that Tarzan of the Apes saw his chance.  All eyes were fixed upon the thrilling spectacle at the stake.  Gently the lithe boy dropped to the soft earth at the end of the village street.
Porter turned in the direction indicated by the nearsighted Mr.  The moonlight flooded the beach, and the strange group stood out in bold relief against the yellow sand.  never before in my life have I known one of these animals to be permitted to roam at large from its cage.  Philander set off in the direction that would put the greatest distance between themselves and the lion.  They had proceeded but a short distance when a backward glance revealed to the horrified gaze of Mr.
Clayton stood rigid, with raised spear.  Presently a faint rustling of the bush apprised him of the stealthy creeping of the thing behind.  It was gathering for the spring.  At last he saw it, not twenty feet away--the long, lithe, muscular body and tawny head of a huge black-maned lion.  The beast was upon its belly, moving forward very slowly.
Jane knew that it was useless again to attempt to force her way through the undergrowth.  She had tried it once, and failed.  She opened her eyes.  Far below her lay the undergrowth and the hard earth.  About her was the waving foliage of the forest.
Without a pause he rushed into the house.  On the couch lay Clayton.  The man started in surprise, but with a bound was at the side of the sleeping man.  Shaking him roughly by the shoulder, he cried:   Clayton sprang to his feet.  He did not recognize the man, but he understood the words and was upon the veranda in a bound.
What though Kala was a fierce and hideous ape!  To Tarzan she had been kind, she had been beautiful.  It was enough, however, for his needs.  Tarzan waited no longer, but leaping into the branches of the trees sped rapidly through the forest.  At his side was the hunting knife of his unknown sire, and across his shoulders the coils of his own long rope.  In an hour he struck the trail again, and coming to earth examined the soil minutely.
Immediately a boat's crew was ordered out and an attempt was successfully made to board the Arrow.  The sight that met the Frenchmen's eyes as they clambered over the ship's side was appalling.  A dozen dead and dying men rolled hither and thither upon the pitching deck, the living intermingled with the dead.  Two of the corpses appeared to have been partially devoured as though by wolves.  None of the living was conscious when the Frenchmen reached the Arrow's deck.
Then Kulonga sprang into a near-by tree.  Horta wheeled to charge his enemy once more; a dozen steps he took, then he staggered and fell upon his side.  For a moment his muscles stiffened and relaxed convulsively, then he lay still.  Kulonga came down from his tree.  The rest he left where it had fallen.
Neither spoke, yet both knew before they opened the closed door what they would find beyond.  Tarzan lifted the latch and pushed the great door in upon its wooden hinges.  It was as they had feared.  The cabin was deserted.  The men turned and looked at one another.
Not thirty paces behind the two she crouched--Sabor, the huge lioness--lashing her tail.  Cautiously she moved a great padded paw forward, noiselessly placing it before she lifted the next.  No longer the tail lashed--quiet and straight behind her it lay.  An instant she paused thus, as though turned to stone, and then, with an awful scream, she sprang.  Sabor, the lioness, was a wise hunter.
To his surprise, it responded to his will as in days gone by.  He now drew up its mate and stretched it forth again.  With infinite solicitude Professor Porter wiggled his right arm--joy! It was intact.  Breathlessly he waved his left arm above his prostrate body--it waved!   excited tone.  Professor Porter deigned to make no response to this puerile inquiry.
Again the man nodded his head, his face distorted by fear of the death that had been so close.  Tarzan released him, and Canler staggered toward the door.  In another moment he was gone, and the terror-stricken preacher with him.  Tarzan turned toward Jane.  The girl nodded and started toward the door leading to the narrow veranda of the little hotel.
With a bound Tarzan sprang into the trees and disappeared.  Jane wondered where he had gone.  Had he left her there to her fate in the lonely jungle?  She glanced nervously about.  Every sound she magnified into the stealthy creeping of a sinuous and malignant body.  She almost prayed for the cruel teeth that would give her unconsciousness and surcease from the agony of fear.
He crept closer through the trees until he was quite close above them.  There were ten men, swarthy, sun-tanned, villainous looking fellows.  As he turned, the little, mean-faced man drew a revolver from his belt and shot the giant in the back.  The conduct of the white strangers it was that caused him the greatest perturbation.  He puckered his brows into a frown of deep thought.
Skins of lion and panther covered the floor.  Cupboards and bookcases lined the walls.  Odd vases made by his own hand from the clay of the region held beautiful tropical flowers.  That he had been able to turn his hands at all to such unaccustomed labor was a source of mild wonder to him.  In his leisure Clayton read, often aloud to his wife, from the store of books he had brought for their new home.
Canler--she does not wish to marry him.  suffer, Professor Porter, for you will be able to pay the Canler person     to whom it belonged.  I saw the sailors bury it, and, ape-like, I had to dig it up and bury it again elsewhere.  When D'Arnot told me what it was and what it meant to you I returned to the jungle and recovered it.  forty-one thousand dollars.
Clayton looked puzzled.  know nothing of him.  He must belong to the tribes which attacked us, or to  Jane blanched.  that he will prove that you are wrong.  You do not know him as I do.
In the center of the greensward a young woman sat upon a little mound of earth, and beside her sat a young giant.  They ate pleasant fruit and looked into each other's eyes and smiled.  They were very happy, and they were all alone.  Tarzan took the envelope and tore it open.  The message was from D'Arnot.
Clayton shook his head.  It was plain to see that a burden had been lifted from their minds.  Six days later Captain Dufranne announced that they would sail early on the morrow.  In spite of herself she began to entertain doubts and fears.  The reasonableness of the arguments of these disinterested French officers commenced to convince her against her will.
TO HAZEL STRONG, BALTIMORE, MD.  Tarzan sat in a brown study for a long time after he finished reading the letter.  It was filled with so many new and wonderful things that his brain was in a whirl as he attempted to digest them all.  So they did not know that he was Tarzan of the Apes.  Among these were some pencils.
At length a simple explanation occurred to her.  The locket had belonged to Lord Greystoke, and the likenesses were of himself and Lady Alice.  This wild creature had simply found it in the cabin by the beach.  How stupid of her not to have thought of that solution before.  At length Tarzan looked up to watch the girl as she examined the locket.
The ape-man threw the warm carcass of Numa across his shoulders and took to the trees once more.  The men upon the veranda had sat for an hour, almost in silence.  as Tarzan's savage cry came faintly to their ears.  the gorilla country.  The men crowded about Tarzan with many questions, but his only answer was a laughing depreciation of his feat.
And then she told him all--told him the truth word by word, without attempting to shield herself or condone her error.  know that I love you; but I do not know the ethics of society by which you are governed.  I shall leave the decision to you, for you know best  good man.  I could never face you nor any other honest person if I repudiated my promise to Mr.  In the center of the greensward a young woman sat upon a little mound of earth, and beside her sat a young giant.
Then I'll see that yer gover'ment's notified where you be an' they'll soon send a man-o'war to fetch ye off.  In about an hour they returned and reported deep water through the passage as well as far into the little basin.  Before dark the barkentine lay peacefully at anchor upon the bosom of the still, mirror-like surface of the harbor.  But no pleas, or threats, or promises of reward could move him.  Ye saved my life once, and in return I'm goin' to spare yours, but that's all I can do.
The rat-faced sailor had half drawn his revolver; the other sailors stood watching the scene intently.  Professor Porter had already disappeared into the jungle, whither he was being followed by the fussy Samuel T.  Philander, his secretary and assistant.  And then three things happened almost simultaneously.  The revolver exploded harmlessly in the air, and the seaman crumpled up with a scream of pain and terror.
He did not mention the mutiny or the chest of buried treasure.  Canler had asked for no security, and you know, dearie, what that will mean for me if papa cannot meet them.  Oh, how I detest that man!  We all tried to look on the bright side of things, but Mr.  Clayton--he joined us in London just for the adventure--both felt as skeptical as I.  It was SIMPLY FILLED with gold coin, and was so heavy that four men bent underneath its weight.
Then one of them laughed and slapped the little man upon the back.  There was much more talk and gesticulating, but less quarreling.  Slipping in at the door he found that everything had been ransacked.  His books and pencils strewed the floor.  His weapons and shields and other little store of treasures were littered about.
The great apes come often to this spot, and if they found you here, wounded and alone, they would kill you.  D'Arnot turned on his side and closed his eyes.  He did not wish to die; but he felt that he was going, for the fever was mounting higher and higher.  That night he lost consciousness.  For three days he was in delirium, and Tarzan sat beside him and bathed his head and hands and washed his wounds.
At length he fell into a quiet slumber, nor did he awake again until afternoon.  The Frenchman called faintly.  The man turned, and rising, came toward the shelter.  His face was very handsome--the handsomest, thought D'Arnot, that he had ever seen.  Stooping, he crawled into the shelter beside the wounded officer, and placed a cool hand upon his forehead.
Breathlessly the tribe watched from their lofty perches as Kerchak, still roaring, charged the relatively puny figure.  Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs.  His enormous shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles.  And thus came the young Lord Greystoke into the kingship of the Apes.  Most of them, therefore, were more than content with the change in rulers.
Then the rat-faced one, with several companions, ascended the low bluff on which stood the tree that concealed Tarzan.  They looked about for several minutes.  beneath Tarzan's tree.  us with the treasure aboard it will all be confiscated anyway.  shrieked Snipes, with a volley of frightful oaths.
Nowhere was there evidence of a man tilling the fields or performing any of the homely duties of the village.  Finally his eyes rested upon a woman directly beneath him.  Before her was a small cauldron standing over a low fire and in it bubbled a thick, reddish, tarry mass.  Tarzan of the Apes was fascinated.  Here was the secret of the terrible destructiveness of The Archer's tiny missiles.
The dancers halted as though turned to stone.  The rope sped with singing whir high above the heads of the blacks.  It was quite invisible in the flaring lights of the camp fires.  D'Arnot opened his eyes.  A huge black, standing directly before him, lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand.
Philander stole another observation astern.  The lion was bounding along in easy leaps scarce five paces behind.  With streaming coat tails and shiny silk hat Professor Archimedes Q.  Porter fled through the moonlight close upon the heels of Mr.  It was Tarzan of the Apes who watched, with face a-grin, this odd game of follow-the-leader.
It reminded Tarzan of the Dum-Dum, and so he knew what to expect.  He wondered if they would spring upon their meat while it was still alive.  The Apes did not do such things as that.  Presently a spear reached out and pricked the victim.  It was the signal for fifty others.
One man went mad and leaped overboard.  Soon another opened his veins and drank his own blood.  When he died they threw him overboard also, though there were those among them who wanted to keep the corpse on board.  Hunger was changing them from human beasts to wild beasts.  On the following morning it was seen that one of the corpses had been partially devoured.
She had been through so much.  This was no time to force his love upon her, he quickly realized.  both safe, well, and together again.  I do not think that I could much longer have endured the pathos of his quiet and uncomplaining grief.  to it, there was my own grief--the greatest I have ever known.
He examined and admired the tattooing on the forehead and breast.  He marveled at the sharp filed teeth.  It could have been as revolting to him as is cannibalism to us.  Why, then, this hesitancy! Once more he essayed the effort, but a qualm of nausea overwhelmed him.  He did not understand.
Soon another opened his veins and drank his own blood.  When he died they threw him overboard also, though there were those among them who wanted to keep the corpse on board.  Hunger was changing them from human beasts to wild beasts.  On the following morning it was seen that one of the corpses had been partially devoured.  And then the cruiser had come.
Beneath the picture were three little bugs--  BOY.  And now he had discovered in the text upon the page that these three were repeated many times in the same sequence.  Slowly he turned the pages, scanning the pictures and the text for a repetition of the combination B-O-Y.  Then he took another pencil, but this time he had a definite object in view.  He would attempt to reproduce some of the little bugs that scrambled over the pages of his books.
Then he left him to follow voluntarily.  Suddenly Clayton heard the faint report of a firearm--a single shot, and then silence.  And now there came the sound of a heavy body brushing against the side of the cabin.  She could hear the great padded paws upon the ground outside.  For an instant, all was silence; even the bedlam of the forest died to a faint murmur.
Tarzan, happily, was uninjured by the fall, alighting catlike upon all fours far outspread to take up the shock.  Thus it was that Tarzan learned by experience the limitations as well as the possibilities of his strange weapon.  Several small animals passed unharmed beneath him.  He did not want such insignificant game.  It would take a strong animal to test the efficacy of his new scheme.
In each instance the animal died almost instantly, for Kulonga's poison was very fresh and very deadly.  Tarzan thought much on this wondrous method of slaying as he swung slowly along at a safe distance behind his quarry.  He must look into the matter.  That night Kulonga slept in the crotch of a mighty tree and far above him crouched Tarzan of the Apes.  When Kulonga awoke he found that his bow and arrows had disappeared.
Clayton called several times, but there was no reply, and so the two returned to the greater safety of the interior.  And now, for Jane Porter, the reaction came, and she threw herself upon the bench, sobbing with hysterical laughter.  Several miles south of the cabin, upon a strip of sandy beach, stood two old men, arguing.  Before them stretched the broad Atlantic.  At their backs was the Dark Continent.
The ape-man, hiding safe behind a screen of foliage, sat watching this new specimen of his own race intently.  At intervals Clayton called aloud and finally it came to Tarzan that he was searching for the old man.  It was Sheeta, the leopard.  Now, Tarzan heard the soft bending of grasses and wondered why the young white man was not warned.  Could it be he had failed to note the loud warning?  Never before had Tarzan known Sheeta to be so clumsy.
Clayton shook his head.  It was plain to see that a burden had been lifted from their minds.  Six days later Captain Dufranne announced that they would sail early on the morrow.  In spite of herself she began to entertain doubts and fears.  The reasonableness of the arguments of these disinterested French officers commenced to convince her against her will.
The Frenchman looked about him.  And far to the east Tarzan of the Apes was speeding through the middle terrace back to his tribe.  Never had he traveled with such reckless speed.  But no matter how fast he went he found them always with him.  kind to die in the jungle if it suited your whim to go elsewhere.
Wisconsin which her mother left her.  made a living from it, and been able to send Jane a trifle beside, each year.  She is planning on our going up there the first of the week.  Canler was about to reply, when the sound of footsteps came from the hall without, and Jane entered the room.  college tomorrow to pack his books.
Esmeralda did not bother to verify Mr.  His tone was enough.  She was within the cabin and had slammed and bolted the startled out of Mr.  He beat furiously upon the heavy portal.  Philander cast a frightened glance behind him.
I have the license and here is the preacher.  disagreeable inflection; and taking Jane Porter by the arm, he started to lead her toward the waiting minister.  But scarcely had he taken a single step ere a heavy hand closed upon his arm with a grip of steel.  Jane turned in horrified surprise toward Tarzan.  But her fears were more for Tarzan than for Canler.
Philander at his elbow, urging him to turn his steps back before the two became again the sport of some savage beast.  Tarzan waited in silence before the door of the little house until they should return.  His thoughts were of the beautiful white girl.  They were always of her now.  He wondered if she would fear him, and the thought all but caused him to relinquish his plan.
It was agreed that on the morrow Canler was to drive to town and bring back the license and a minister.  Clayton had wanted to leave as soon as the plan was announced, but the girl's tired, hopeless look kept him.  He could not desert her.  Something might happen yet, he tried to console himself by thinking.  Early the next morning Canler set out for town.
The man stopped with upraised spear and faced the brush from which issued the awful sound.  The shadows were deepening, darkness was settling in.  Clayton stood rigid, with raised spear.  Presently a faint rustling of the bush apprised him of the stealthy creeping of the thing behind.  It was gathering for the spring.
He turned red as he compared it with the beautiful broad nostrils of his companion.  Not thirty paces behind the two she crouched--Sabor, the huge lioness--lashing her tail.  Cautiously she moved a great padded paw forward, noiselessly placing it before she lifted the next.  No longer the tail lashed--quiet and straight behind her it lay.  An instant she paused thus, as though turned to stone, and then, with an awful scream, she sprang.
Soon he saw many people clambering over the sides of the larger vessel and dropping into the boats.  They were coming back in full force.  This notice he stuck upon the door with a small sharp splinter of wood.  When the two boats were beached upon the silvery sand it was a strange assortment of humanity that clambered ashore.  Some twenty souls in all there were, fifteen of them rough and villainous appearing seamen.
Professor Porter finally broke the silence.  to-morrow, as soon as it is light, I shall take what food I can carry and continue the search until I have found Jane.  I will not return  His companions did not reply at once.  At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter's bent old shoulder.  Jane is beyond human assistance now.
Tarzan lifted the latch and pushed the great door in upon its wooden hinges.  It was as they had feared.  The cabin was deserted.  The men turned and looked at one another.  A great bitterness rose in his heart.
But to Tarzan a dawning light had come to explain the mystery of CLOTHES.  How snug he would have been beneath the heavy coat of Sabor! And so was added a further incentive to the adventure.  Tarzan, happily, was uninjured by the fall, alighting catlike upon all fours far outspread to take up the shock.  Thus it was that Tarzan learned by experience the limitations as well as the possibilities of his strange weapon.  Several small animals passed unharmed beneath him.
There was an ugly flesh wound, but no signs of a fracture of the skull.  D'Arnot breathed a sigh of relief, and went about bathing the blood from Tarzan's face.  Soon the cool water revived him, and presently he opened his eyes to look in questioning surprise at D'Arnot.  Tarzan, after reading the message, sat on the edge of the couch and laughed.  D'Arnot handed Tarzan the two messages that had been left for him.
Early the following morning the four within the little cabin by the beach were awakened by the booming of a cannon.  Clayton was the first to rush out, and there, beyond the harbor's mouth, he saw two vessels lying at anchor.  One was the Arrow and the other a small French cruiser.  At some distance away she stopped, and a boat was lowered and dispatched toward the beach.  As it was drawn up a young officer stepped out.
Kerchak grunted and turned away, for he was jealous of this strange member of his band.  In his little evil brain he sought for some excuse to wreak his hatred upon Tarzan.  The next day Tarzan was practicing with his bow and arrows at the first gleam of dawn.  Tarzan examined these all minutely.  The photograph he liked most of all, for the eyes were smiling, and the face was open and frank.
At heart he was even a greater coward than Mr.  William Cecil Clayton had imagined.  Two keen eyes had watched every move of the party from the foliage of a nearby tree.  Clayton had taken but a dozen steps.  The rat-faced sailor had half drawn his revolver; the other sailors stood watching the scene intently.
As Jane permitted herself to harbor these thoughts, others equally unwelcome forced themselves upon her.  If he belonged to some savage tribe he had a savage wife--a dozen of them perhaps--and wild, half-caste children.  The girl shuddered, and when they told her that the cruiser would sail on the morrow she was almost glad.  And at the last minute she left a message for him, to be transmitted by Tarzan of the Apes.  She was the last to leave the cabin, returning on some trivial pretext after the others had started for the boat.
To none of these evidences of a fearful tragedy of a long dead day did little Tarzan give but passing heed.  The furnishings and other contents of the room it was which riveted his attention.  For a long time this amused him, but finally tiring he continued his explorations.  B is for Boy, His first name is Joe.  The pictures interested him greatly.
But the death he prayed for was not to be so easily had.  Soon the warriors beat the women away from their prisoner.  Presently they reached the center of the village.  There D'Arnot was bound securely to the great post from which no live man had ever been released.  Surely no such creatures really existed upon earth--he must indeed be dreaming.
For three days he was in delirium, and Tarzan sat beside him and bathed his head and hands and washed his wounds.  Tarzan had to lift him that he might drink from the gourd.  Two days later, D'Arnot was tottering about the amphitheater, Tarzan's strong arm about him to keep him from falling.  They sat beneath the shade of a great tree, and Tarzan found some smooth bark that they might converse.  Tarzan was as anxious to go as D'Arnot, for he longed to see Jane again.
You are Jane Porter, I saw it in your letter.  When you see this you will know that it is for you and that Tarzan of the Apes loves you.  It was the passing of a great ape through the lower branches of the forest.  Clayton, also, heard the scream, and Professor Porter and Mr.  A glance within confirmed their worst fears.
She pointed to it now, and Tarzan removed it and handed the pretty bauble to her.  She looked up at Tarzan to find him leaning toward her gazing on the miniatures with an expression of astonishment.  His manner clearly denoted that he had never before seen them, nor imagined that the locket opened.  Tarzan was still gazing with fixity at the two faces.  Carefully he unwrapped it, removing layer after layer of leaves until at length he held a photograph in his hand.
And then three things happened almost simultaneously.  The revolver exploded harmlessly in the air, and the seaman crumpled up with a scream of pain and terror.  Clayton turned and rushed back toward the scene.  The sailors stood in a frightened group, with drawn weapons, peering into the jungle.  The wounded man writhed and shrieked upon the ground.
If he belonged to some savage tribe he had a savage wife--a dozen of them perhaps--and wild, half-caste children.  The girl shuddered, and when they told her that the cruiser would sail on the morrow she was almost glad.  And at the last minute she left a message for him, to be transmitted by Tarzan of the Apes.  She was the last to leave the cabin, returning on some trivial pretext after the others had started for the boat.  There was no response, and then D'Arnot placed his ear above the man's heart.
If for Snipes, then our ape friend is a friend indeed.  something in that jungle, and it's armed, whatever it is.  clouded by a frown of worry and indecision.  can't venture into the jungle with me; yet someone must go in search of your father.  He is more than apt to wandering off aimlessly, regardless of danger or direction, and Mr.
Her first words filled Clayton with vague apprehension.  Long since had he given up any hope of rescue, except through accident.  With unremitting zeal he had worked to beautify the interior of the cabin.  Skins of lion and panther covered the floor.  Cupboards and bookcases lined the walls.
Philander cast a frightened glance behind him.  Horrors!  The thing was quite close now.  He tried to scramble up the side of the cabin, and succeeded in catching a fleeting hold upon the thatched roof.  Philander, preceding it, was precipitated upon his back.  At the instant he fell a remarkable item of natural history leaped to his mind.
Since then Tarzan of the Apes had felt a warm, lithe form close pressed to his.  Again he laid his hand upon her arm.  Again she repulsed him.  And then Tarzan of the Apes did just what his first ancestor would have done.  He took his woman in his arms and carried her into the jungle.
Clayton was the first to remember, and, turning, held out his hand.  pardon me if I do not speak to you in English.  I am just learning it,  himself.  Clayton started back in surprise.  And Professor Porter and Mr.
Still Tarzan watched.  Creeping close beneath the window he waited, listening, for half an hour.  At last he was rewarded by the sounds of the regular breathing within which denotes sleep.  Cautiously he intruded his hand between the meshes of the lattice until his whole arm was within the cabin.  Carefully he felt upon the desk.
With low moans, she sat cuddling the body to her; nor did Kerchak attempt to molest her.  With the death of the babe his fit of demoniacal rage passed as suddenly as it had seized him.  Kerchak was a huge king ape, weighing perhaps three hundred and fifty pounds.  Old Tantor, the elephant, alone of all the wild savage life, feared him not--and he alone did Kerchak fear.  When Tantor trumpeted, the great ape scurried with his fellows high among the trees of the second terrace.
Tarzan saw that in many ways they were like the men of his picture books.  He crept closer through the trees until he was quite close above them.  There were ten men, swarthy, sun-tanned, villainous looking fellows.  As he turned, the little, mean-faced man drew a revolver from his belt and shot the giant in the back.  The conduct of the white strangers it was that caused him the greatest perturbation.
Nor did the other's frank, clear eyes waver beneath D'Arnot's fixed gaze.  D'Arnot was reassured, but still without much hope, though he felt that that face could not mask a cruel heart.  Without a word Tarzan of the Apes cut the bonds which held the Frenchman.  Weak from suffering and loss of blood, he would have fallen but for the strong arm that caught him.  He felt himself lifted from the ground.
He is the only son of Lord Greystoke, and some day will inherit the title and estates.  We have had the most weird experiences since we were landed here.  Philander lost in the jungle, and chased by a real lion.  Clayton lost, and attacked twice by wild beasts.  Esmeralda and I cornered in an old cabin by a perfectly awful man-eating lioness.
Tarzan rose, and, going to one of the cupboards, returned with a well-thumbed geography.  How could he make the man understand?  Then he took a pencil and made a tiny point upon the shore of Africa.  Tarzan thought for a long time.  D'Arnot pointed out a spot on the shore just north of them.  Again D'Arnot smiled and shook his head.
When Kulonga awoke he found that his bow and arrows had disappeared.  The black warrior was furious and frightened, but more frightened than furious.  Kulonga was panic-stricken.  His only hope lay in reaching the village of Mbonga as quickly as his legs would carry him.  That he was not far from home he was certain, so he took the trail at a rapid trot.
With swelling chest he narrated the glories of his adventure and exhibited the spoils of conquest.  Kerchak grunted and turned away, for he was jealous of this strange member of his band.  In his little evil brain he sought for some excuse to wreak his hatred upon Tarzan.  The next day Tarzan was practicing with his bow and arrows at the first gleam of dawn.  Tarzan examined these all minutely.
It was evident to him from the notes that they did not know that he and Tarzan of the Apes were one and the same.  D'Arnot extinguished the lamp, and lay down upon the cot.  For a week they did little but rest, D'Arnot coaching Tarzan in French.  At the end of that time the two men could converse quite easily.  One night, as they were sitting within the cabin before retiring, Tarzan turned to D'Arnot.
They were evidently no different from the black men--no more civilized than the apes--no less cruel than Sabor.  For a moment the others stood looking at the little, mean-faced man and the giant lying dead upon the beach.  Then one of them laughed and slapped the little man upon the back.  There was much more talk and gesticulating, but less quarreling.  Slipping in at the door he found that everything had been ransacked.
Here was the secret of the terrible destructiveness of The Archer's tiny missiles.  How he should like to have more of those little death-dealing slivers.  As he was trying to think out some plan to distract her attention he heard a wild cry from across the clearing.  The fellow was shouting and waving his spear above his head.  Now and again he would point to something on the ground before him.
Surely no such creatures really existed upon earth--he must indeed be dreaming.  The savage, whirling bodies circled nearer.  Now a spear sprang forth and touched his arm.  The sharp pain and the feel of hot, trickling blood assured him of the awful reality of his hopeless position.  Another spear and then another touched him.
In an instant Esmeralda, Professor Porter and Mr.  Philander had joined the two men.  and shaking her roughly.  where a mighty wall of roaring flames shut out the view.  A short run down the road brought her to a horrified stand, for there before her was another wall of flame.
Then they sat down together again upon the edge of the drum and tried to talk by signs.  The magnificent diamond locket which hung about Tarzan's neck, had been a source of much wonderment to Jane.  She pointed to it now, and Tarzan removed it and handed the pretty bauble to her.  She looked up at Tarzan to find him leaning toward her gazing on the miniatures with an expression of astonishment.  His manner clearly denoted that he had never before seen them, nor imagined that the locket opened.
They had come to a point beyond the fire now, and he had turned back to the clearing.  Side by side they were walking toward the cottage.  Apes had written in English, and you could not understand a word of any  Again he laughed.  now D'Arnot has made matters worse by teaching me to speak French instead of English.  As they drove along, he said:    would possibly be married by now.
The dancers halted as though turned to stone.  The rope sped with singing whir high above the heads of the blacks.  It was quite invisible in the flaring lights of the camp fires.  D'Arnot opened his eyes.  A huge black, standing directly before him, lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand.
One was an elderly man, with white hair and large rimmed spectacles.  After these came a huge Negress clothed like Solomon as to colors.  She gave him a brave and pretty smile of thanks, but no words passed between them.  In silence the party advanced toward the cabin.  The men put down their burdens, and then one caught sight of the notice which Tarzan had posted.
Philander that the lion was following them.  He tightened his grip upon the protesting professor and increased his speed.  Philander took another hasty glance rearward.  The lion also had quickened his gait, and was doggedly maintaining an unvarying distance behind them.  haste is most unbecoming to men of letters.
But love is a strange master, and human nature is still stranger, so she asked her question.  the shots in the jungle, very faint and far away, he left me.  for he did not believe it.  The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.  Clayton looked puzzled.
What Tarzan did they tried to do also, but he alone originated and became proficient.  By accident the noose fell squarely about the running ape's neck, bringing him to a sudden and surprising halt.  Ah, here was a new game, a fine game, thought Tarzan, and immediately he attempted to repeat the trick.  And thus, by painstaking and continued practice, he learned the art of roping.  Now, indeed, was the life of Tublat a living nightmare.
Tarzan nodded his head.  For some time they stood there gazing out upon the busy throng beneath, each wrapped in his own thoughts.  to look at the police officer.  The policeman looked up, and, catching his eye, raised his finger to admonish silence.  D'Arnot turned back to the window, and presently the police officer spoke.
The three of them had hurried toward the village as rapidly as their legs would carry them.  No other sound did he utter nor was there any creature in sight about him.  Then Tarzan returned, hunting, always hunting, to the cabin by the beach.  That now seemed to them the logical explanation.  When Tarzan came in sight of the beach where stood his cabin, a strange and unusual spectacle met his vision.
The party now entered the modest little hostelry, where Clayton soon made arrangements for their entertainment.  I had hoped, er--I had thought or--er--how very happy  often admonished my pupils to count ten before speaking.  Philander, I should count at least a thousand, and then maintain a   Jane blanched.  Clayton moved uneasily in his chair.  The ubiquitous Esmeralda grunted.
He turned red as he compared it with the beautiful broad nostrils of his companion.  Not thirty paces behind the two she crouched--Sabor, the huge lioness--lashing her tail.  Cautiously she moved a great padded paw forward, noiselessly placing it before she lifted the next.  No longer the tail lashed--quiet and straight behind her it lay.  An instant she paused thus, as though turned to stone, and then, with an awful scream, she sprang.
Philander at his elbow, urging him to turn his steps back before the two became again the sport of some savage beast.  Tarzan waited in silence before the door of the little house until they should return.  His thoughts were of the beautiful white girl.  They were always of her now.  He wondered if she would fear him, and the thought all but caused him to relinquish his plan.
I am the greatest of the jungle fighters.  I will fight for you.  I am the mightiest of the jungle fighters.  You are Jane Porter, I saw it in your letter.  When you see this you will know that it is for you and that Tarzan of the Apes loves you.
When he received this appointment he was both elated and appalled.  For her sake he would have refused the appointment, but she would not have it so.  Instead she insisted that he accept, and, indeed, take her with him.  And here John, Lord Greystoke, and Lady Alice, his wife, vanished from the eyes and from the knowledge of men.  The Fuwalda was no exception to the rule.
Among those circling futilely the outskirts of the banqueters was old Tublat.  In them, too, was greed for the toothsome dainty the boy carried.  Up, up he went to the waving pinnacle of a lofty monarch of the forest where his heavy pursuer dared not follow him.  There he perched, hurling taunts and insults at the raging, foaming beast fifty feet below him.  And then Tublat went mad.
For a moment--the first in her young life--she knew the meaning of love.  Now he was surprised that she repulsed him.  He came close to her once more and took hold of her arm.  She turned upon him like a tigress, striking his great breast with her tiny hands.  Tarzan could not understand it.
If you go, I shall go     It took a long time to make him understand even imperfectly.  need you work for it.  I have enough money for two--enough for twenty.  Each man carrying a rifle and ammunition, beside bedding and some food and cooking utensils.  The latter seemed to Tarzan a most useless encumbrance, so he threw his away.
He could not desert her.  Something might happen yet, he tried to console himself by thinking.  Early the next morning Canler set out for town.  About noon Jane started off for a walk.  She would not let Clayton accompany her.
An idea came to him.  He wondered why he had not thought of it before.  Tarzan shook his head and taking the bark, wrote:   I had thought of that--the first day; but I dared not.  The great apes come often to this spot, and if they found you here, wounded and alone, they would kill you.  D'Arnot turned on his side and closed his eyes.
Clayton, as he thought, and he has stayed to rescue Lieutenant D'Arnot; of that you may be sure.  It is strong circumstantial evidence, I will admit, but it   The girl laughed.  her nerves a-tingle at the thought that she spoke of her own.  Professor Porter was there, and Mr.  The officers arose and saluted as their superior approached, and Clayton surrendered his camp stool to Jane.
She could not have known it, but she was being borne farther and farther into the impenetrable jungle.  Nearer the center of the tree, where the signs of passage are fainter, the direction is plainly marked.  Here he looks to find a tiny particle of the demolished larva, ofttimes not more than a speck of moisture.  Nor does he need to check his speed to catch these seemingly faint records of the fleeing beast.  To Tarzan they stand out boldly against all the myriad other scars and bruises and signs upon the leafy way.
Tarzan had always hated water except as a medium for quenching his thirst.  Tarzan now swam to shore and clambered quickly upon dry land.  Tublat, her mate, always hated Tarzan, and on several occasions had come near ending his youthful career.  What Tarzan did they tried to do also, but he alone originated and became proficient.  By accident the noose fell squarely about the running ape's neck, bringing him to a sudden and surprising halt.
No two people born into the world probably have ever had identical lines upon all their digits.  Tarzan looked at the book in surprise.  How did D'Arnot come to have his book?  Presently D'Arnot stopped at a page on which were five tiny little smudges.  He handed the open book to the policeman.  from his desk and examined all three specimens carefully, making notations meanwhile upon a pad of paper.
Presently it tried the strength of the lattice with its great talons.  At her feet lay the prostrate form of the Negress.  Jane stooped to grasp the black woman by the shoulder.  Roughly she shook her.  Esmeralda opened her eyes.
beneath Tarzan's tree.  us with the treasure aboard it will all be confiscated anyway.  shrieked Snipes, with a volley of frightful oaths.  location so's we kin find it again.  You, Tom, and Bill, take a couple    The men all looked up angrily.
The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.  Clayton looked puzzled.  know nothing of him.  He must belong to the tribes which attacked us, or to  Jane blanched.  that he will prove that you are wrong.
He had taken but a step, however, ere his quick ear caught the sound of approaching footsteps immediately without.  In another instant the figure of a woman darkened the entrance of the hut.  Tarzan drew back silently to the far wall, and his hand sought the long, keen hunting knife of his father.  The woman came quickly to the center of the hut.  There she paused for an instant feeling about with her hands for the thing she sought.
The rope sped with singing whir high above the heads of the blacks.  It was quite invisible in the flaring lights of the camp fires.  D'Arnot opened his eyes.  A huge black, standing directly before him, lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand.  Struggling and shrieking, his body, rolling from side to side, moved quickly toward the shadows beneath the trees.
That night he lost consciousness.  For three days he was in delirium, and Tarzan sat beside him and bathed his head and hands and washed his wounds.  Tarzan had to lift him that he might drink from the gourd.  Two days later, D'Arnot was tottering about the amphitheater, Tarzan's strong arm about him to keep him from falling.  They sat beneath the shade of a great tree, and Tarzan found some smooth bark that they might converse.
In them, too, was greed for the toothsome dainty the boy carried.  Up, up he went to the waving pinnacle of a lofty monarch of the forest where his heavy pursuer dared not follow him.  There he perched, hurling taunts and insults at the raging, foaming beast fifty feet below him.  And then Tublat went mad.  In the brilliant moonlight Tarzan witnessed the whole mad carnival of rage.
Tarzan dropped to the ground and commenced to examine the earth about the excavation.  He was looking to see if these creatures had dropped anything which he might like to own.  Soon he discovered a spade hidden by the underbrush which they had laid upon the grave.  He seized it and attempted to use it as he had seen the sailors do.  It was awkward work and hurt his bare feet, but he persevered until he had partially uncovered the body.
When she saw him she hurried forward to meet him.  He had never before called her by her given name.  thank you for your chivalrous loyalty to my dear father.  He has told  Clayton noticed that she did not return his familiar salutation, but he felt no misgivings on that score.  She had been through so much.
The next morning Jane found her missing letter in the exact spot from which it had disappeared two nights before.  She showed the letter, or rather the last sheet with the signature, to Clayton.  Tarzan derived the greatest pleasure of his life in hunting meat for these strangers.  Tarzan had finally determined to visit the camp by daylight.  It was early afternoon.
He knew, too, that they seldom lost much time before consummating the fiendish purpose of their captures.  He doubted that he would arrive in time to do more than avenge.  Presently he caught the reflection of a distant blaze.  It lay to the right of his path.  It was the camp fire of the Frenchmen.
Tarzan realized now what was the meaning of their visit to the police officer.  The answer to his life's riddle lay in these tiny marks.  With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair, but suddenly he relaxed and dropped back, smiling.  D'Arnot looked at him in surprise.  those fingerprints lay in the cabin of his father, and that all my life  The policeman looked up in astonishment.
Had he remained too long? Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street toward the village gate.  The natives were not yet in sight, though he could plainly hear them approaching across the plantation.  They must be very near.  Like a flash he sprang across the opening to the pile of arrows.  The natives filed up the street, four of them bearing the dead body of Kulonga.
Presently they reached the center of the village.  There D'Arnot was bound securely to the great post from which no live man had ever been released.  Surely no such creatures really existed upon earth--he must indeed be dreaming.  The savage, whirling bodies circled nearer.  Now a spear sprang forth and touched his arm.
Tarzan understood the plan instantly.  He glanced out of half-closed eyes at Jane, but he did not move.  The room was tense with the silence of taut nerves.  All eyes turned toward Jane, awaiting her reply.  Canler felt the hostility that emanated from each member of the party.
The great trees bent in unison as though pressed earthward by a mighty hand.  Then, suddenly, the jungle giants whipped back, lashing their mighty tops in angry and deafening protest.  A vivid and blinding light flashed from the whirling, inky clouds above.  The deep cannonade of roaring thunder belched forth its fearsome challenge.  The deluge came--all hell broke loose upon the jungle.
Now was the quiet, fierce solitude of the primeval forest broken by new, strange cries.  No longer was there safety for bird or beast.  With man it is different.  They flee man as man flees a pestilence.  This necessitated watching by day on Tarzan's part to discover where the arrows were being concealed.
The next morning they set out upon the return march.  Slowly the expedition retraced its steps of the preceding day.  Ten loaded hammocks retarded its pace.  In eight of them lay the more seriously wounded, while two swung beneath the weight of the dead.  only grieve that I could not have died for him, or at least with him.
Tarzan of the Apes was fascinated.  Here was the secret of the terrible destructiveness of The Archer's tiny missiles.  How he should like to have more of those little death-dealing slivers.  As he was trying to think out some plan to distract her attention he heard a wild cry from across the clearing.  The fellow was shouting and waving his spear above his head.
Tarzan began to hold his own kind in low esteem.  In a larger circle squatted the women, yelling and beating upon drums.  It reminded Tarzan of the Dum-Dum, and so he knew what to expect.  He wondered if they would spring upon their meat while it was still alive.  The Apes did not do such things as that.
Tarzan derived the greatest pleasure of his life in hunting meat for these strangers.  Tarzan had finally determined to visit the camp by daylight.  It was early afternoon.  Clayton had wandered to the point at the harbor's mouth to look for passing vessels.  Professor Porter was wandering along the beach south of the camp with Mr.
Before she could reach them, however, Clayton had jumped to Tarzan's side and attempted to drag Canler from his grasp.  The grasp upon Canler's throat relaxed.  Tarzan looked down into the beautiful face before him.  Tarzan removed his hand from Canler's throat.  Canler, gasping for breath, nodded.
Up went the hunting knife, and then the woman turned to last been successful.  Comparative quiet reigned in the village.  Squarely among them it fell, striking one of the warriors full upon the head and felling him to the ground.  Then it rolled among the women and stopped beside the half-butchered thing they were preparing to feast upon.  All gazed in consternation at it for an instant, and then, with one accord, broke and ran for their huts.
D'Arnot opened his eyes.  A huge black, standing directly before him, lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand.  Struggling and shrieking, his body, rolling from side to side, moved quickly toward the shadows beneath the trees.  The blacks, their eyes protruding in horror, watched spellbound.  D'Arnot was left alone.
The commander selected twenty men and two officers, Lieutenant D'Arnot and Lieutenant Charpentier.  Immediately a boat's crew was ordered out and an attempt was successfully made to board the Arrow.  The sight that met the Frenchmen's eyes as they clambered over the ship's side was appalling.  A dozen dead and dying men rolled hither and thither upon the pitching deck, the living intermingled with the dead.  Two of the corpses appeared to have been partially devoured as though by wolves.
Dusk was falling, and the interior of the cabin was very dark; but the man could see the latch moving from its place.  He felt his hair rising upon his scalp.  Gently the door opened until a thin crack showed something standing just beyond.  D'Arnot sighted along the blue barrel at the crack of the door--and then he pulled the trigger.  there are two friends in that jungle who will come out of it some day expecting to find us awaiting them.
There would still be life in it, but death then would be the only charity it craved.  The stake stood forty feet from the nearest tree.  Tarzan coiled his rope.  Then there rose suddenly above the fiendish cries of the dancing demons the awful challenge of the ape-man.  The dancers halted as though turned to stone.
On they came to the portals of Kulonga's hut, the very one in which Tarzan had wrought his depredations.  Scarcely had half a dozen entered the building ere they came rushing out in wild, jabbering confusion.  The others hastened to gather about.  It was Mbonga, the king, father of Kulonga.  For a few moments all was silent.
He did not attempt to check her tears.  Work must be our salvation.  We must not give ourselves time to think, for in that direction lies madness.  distant past faced the same problems which we must face, possibly in these same primeval forests.  That we are here today evidences their victory.
Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs.  His enormous shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles.  And thus came the young Lord Greystoke into the kingship of the Apes.  Most of them, therefore, were more than content with the change in rulers.  During this period Tarzan paid many nocturnal visits to the village, where he often renewed his supply of arrows.
Presently they reached the center of the village.  There D'Arnot was bound securely to the great post from which no live man had ever been released.  Surely no such creatures really existed upon earth--he must indeed be dreaming.  The savage, whirling bodies circled nearer.  Now a spear sprang forth and touched his arm.
They had wandered for miles in search of their camp, but always in the wrong direction.  They were as hopelessly lost as though they suddenly had been transported to another world.  Philander was speaking.  Moslemism was, is, and always will be, a blight on that scientific progress which   Professor Archimedes Q.  Porter turned in the direction indicated by the nearsighted Mr.
Something might happen yet, he tried to console himself by thinking.  Early the next morning Canler set out for town.  About noon Jane started off for a walk.  She would not let Clayton accompany her.  She wanted to be alone, she said, and he respected her wishes.
With a cry of rage and pain the she-ape turned upon her tormentor.  As she charged, Kulonga unslung his bow and fitted an arrow with almost unthinkable quickness.  Drawing the shaft far back he drove the poisoned missile straight into the heart of the great anthropoid.  With a horrid scream Kala plunged forward upon her face before the astonished members of her tribe.  When he arrived he found the entire tribe gathered jabbering about the dead body of his slain mother.
Never in all his life had so fearful a sound smote upon his ears.  Possibly, too, he thought, the professor and Philander might have returned to camp.  Yes, that was more than likely.  At least he would return and see, before he continued what seemed to be a most fruitless quest.  Nor was he following the trail of the old men.
Clayton gathered for me, but will add to this from day to day as things happen.  Lovingly, JANE PORTER.  TO HAZEL STRONG, BALTIMORE, MD.  Tarzan sat in a brown study for a long time after he finished reading the letter.  It was filled with so many new and wonderful things that his brain was in a whirl as he attempted to digest them all.
Instinctively the girl shuddered, and shrank closer to the black woman.  groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just beyond the thin wall.  A gentle scratching sound was heard on the door.  Again they stopped--beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now glued themselves.  beyond, she saw framed in the tiny square of the latticed window the head of a huge lioness.
As it was drawn up a young officer stepped out.  Clayton told of the abduction of Jane Porter and the need of armed men to aid in the search for her.  Soon the entire party had landed where stood Professor Porter, Mr.  Philander and the weeping Esmeralda.  The commander selected twenty men and two officers, Lieutenant D'Arnot and Lieutenant Charpentier.
Professor Porter was there, and Mr.  The officers arose and saluted as their superior approached, and Clayton surrendered his camp stool to Jane.  opportunity to harm us himself, or to lead his people against us.  grizzly--absolutely without sign of fear or hesitation--you would have believed him more than human.  skin--could you have seen them force back those awful fangs--you too would have thought him invincible.
The commander selected twenty men and two officers, Lieutenant D'Arnot and Lieutenant Charpentier.  Immediately a boat's crew was ordered out and an attempt was successfully made to board the Arrow.  The sight that met the Frenchmen's eyes as they clambered over the ship's side was appalling.  A dozen dead and dying men rolled hither and thither upon the pitching deck, the living intermingled with the dead.  Two of the corpses appeared to have been partially devoured as though by wolves.
As D'Arnot watched the spot where the body had entered the tree he heard the sounds of movement there.  Immediately after him came a white body, but this one alighted erect.  D'Arnot saw a clean-limbed young giant emerge from the shadows into the firelight and come quickly toward him.  What could it mean?  Who could it be?  Some new creature of torture and destruction, doubtless.  His eyes never left the face of the advancing man.
When he arrived he found the entire tribe gathered jabbering about the dead body of his slain mother.  Tarzan's grief and anger were unbounded.  He roared out his hideous challenge time and again.  What though Kala was a fierce and hideous ape!  To Tarzan she had been kind, she had been beautiful.  It was enough, however, for his needs.
So far as the ape was concerned, Sabor reasoned correctly.  The little fellow crouched trembling just an instant, but that instant was quite long enough to prove his undoing.  Not so, however, with Tarzan, the man-child.  So the scream of Sabor, the lioness, galvanized the brain and muscles of little Tarzan into instant action.  Tarzan had always hated water except as a medium for quenching his thirst.
It would take a strong animal to test the efficacy of his new scheme.  Her great padded feet fell soft and noiseless on the narrow trail.  Her head was high in ever alert attention; her long tail moved slowly in sinuous and graceful undulations.  Like a thing of bronze, motionless as death, sat Tarzan.  Sabor passed beneath.
Tarzan pointed toward the sounds, touched his breast and pointed again.  He was going, and something told her that it was because he thought her people were in danger.  Again he kissed her.  He was gone--and Jane turned to walk across the clearing to the cabin.  Philander was the first to see her.
that any of us need worry about our carrion-eating acquaintance.  He is only  The girl did not answer, but she felt her heart shrivel within her.  Slowly she turned and walked back to the cabin.  She tried to imagine her wood-god by her side in the saloon of an ocean liner.  She saw him as she introduced him to her friends--uncouth, illiterate--a boor; and the girl winced.
An idea came to him.  He wondered why he had not thought of it before.  Tarzan shook his head and taking the bark, wrote:   I had thought of that--the first day; but I dared not.  The great apes come often to this spot, and if they found you here, wounded and alone, they would kill you.  D'Arnot turned on his side and closed his eyes.
They were evidently no different from the black men--no more civilized than the apes--no less cruel than Sabor.  For a moment the others stood looking at the little, mean-faced man and the giant lying dead upon the beach.  Then one of them laughed and slapped the little man upon the back.  There was much more talk and gesticulating, but less quarreling.  Slipping in at the door he found that everything had been ransacked.
years, and God alone knows how hard I have tried to be 'human' for  Another old hand stole up from Mr.  They did not speak for some minutes.  The lion below them paced nervously back and forth.  The third figure in the tree was hidden by the dense shadows near the stem.  He, too, was silent--motionless as a graven image.
If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted.  But the girl, ah--that was a different matter.  He did not reason here.  He knew that she was created to be protected, and that he was created to protect her.  He wondered why they had dug a great hole in the ground merely to bury dry bones.
The subject always made him uncomfortable.  He could not understand why.  Canler was a splendid match.  off first on one ground and then another.  I have always the feeling   relief marking his voice.
D'Arnot extinguished the lamp, and lay down upon the cot.  For a week they did little but rest, D'Arnot coaching Tarzan in French.  At the end of that time the two men could converse quite easily.  One night, as they were sitting within the cabin before retiring, Tarzan turned to D'Arnot.  D'Arnot pointed toward the northwest.
Clayton, with Jane, the professor and Esmeralda occupied Clayton's car, while Tarzan took Mr.  Philander in with him.  Bless me!  But it is most  recall any of the details of the finding and burying of three skeletons    Mr.  Philander eyed Tarzan narrowly.  may clear up a mystery.
Immediately after him came a white body, but this one alighted erect.  D'Arnot saw a clean-limbed young giant emerge from the shadows into the firelight and come quickly toward him.  What could it mean?  Who could it be?  Some new creature of torture and destruction, doubtless.  His eyes never left the face of the advancing man.  Nor did the other's frank, clear eyes waver beneath D'Arnot's fixed gaze.
Never had he traveled with such reckless speed.  But no matter how fast he went he found them always with him.  kind to die in the jungle if it suited your whim to go elsewhere.  run away from one of your own people, because one of them has run away   D'Arnot closed the cabin door.  He was very nervous.
And from the safety of his overhanging limb the ape-child sent back the fearsome answer of his kind.  But into the mind of Tarzan a great plan sprang.  He would be a mighty hunter, also.  On this day, however, he presently had other and more immediate interests to attract his attention.  All nature waited--but not for long.
As they drove along, he said:    would possibly be married by now.  That a man named Canler had come up      She buried her face in her hands.  He was silent for a moment.  Finally they passed the danger point, and Tarzan reduced their speed.  You are a gentleman, and gentlemen do not kill in cold  to himself.
Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and on each breast three concentric circles.  In the rear were a hundred warriors, similar in all respects to the advance guard.  Here there were no white men, no soldiers, nor any rubber or ivory to be gathered for cruel and thankless taskmasters.  Several moons passed by ere the blacks ventured far into the territory surrounding their new village.  But one day, Kulonga, a son of the old king, Mbonga, wandered far into the dense mazes to the west.
They were always of her now.  He wondered if she would fear him, and the thought all but caused him to relinquish his plan.  The ape-man knew no god, but he was as near to worshipping his divinity as mortal man ever comes to worship.  He wrote:   I am Tarzan of the Apes.  We live here together always in my house.
In the grass at the entrance to her bower she saw the imprint of his body where he had lain all night to guard her.  She knew that the fact that he had been there was all that had permitted her to sleep in such peaceful security.  Even the lions and panthers had no fears for her now.  She looked up to see his lithe form drop softly from a near-by tree.  He had again been gathering fruit and this he laid at the entrance of her bower.
that he will prove that you are wrong.  You do not know him as I do.  that any of us need worry about our carrion-eating acquaintance.  He is only  The girl did not answer, but she felt her heart shrivel within her.  Slowly she turned and walked back to the cabin.
Every few moments he called aloud the names of the wanderers.  When Professor Archimedes Q.  Porter and his assistant, Samuel T.  Instead, with all the assurance that deductive reasoning from a wrong premise induces in one, Mr.  Philander grasped Professor Archimedes Q.
But now he heard, outside, the sounds of many voices, and long mournful howls, and mighty wailing.  Had he remained too long? Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street toward the village gate.  The natives were not yet in sight, though he could plainly hear them approaching across the plantation.  They must be very near.  Like a flash he sprang across the opening to the pile of arrows.
Philander that the lion was following them.  He tightened his grip upon the protesting professor and increased his speed.  Philander took another hasty glance rearward.  The lion also had quickened his gait, and was doggedly maintaining an unvarying distance behind them.  haste is most unbecoming to men of letters.
At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter's bent old shoulder.  Jane is beyond human assistance now.  What was once my dear little girl shall not lie alone and friendless in the awful jungle.  and when the spirit of her mother is abroad, it will find us together in death, as it has always found us in life.  The old man looked up, regarding the strong, handsome face of William Cecil Clayton intently.
We must leave room for the thumb and the fingers of the left hand.  Tarzan complied readily, asking many questions of the officer during the operation.  I should hate to trust its findings further than to differentiate between individuals.  There it is absolute.  No two people born into the world probably have ever had identical lines upon all their digits.
In the matter of food, thought Tarzan, they had no need to worry--he would provide, and he did.  The next morning Jane found her missing letter in the exact spot from which it had disappeared two nights before.  She showed the letter, or rather the last sheet with the signature, to Clayton.  Tarzan derived the greatest pleasure of his life in hunting meat for these strangers.  Tarzan had finally determined to visit the camp by daylight.
The Apes did not do such things as that.  Presently a spear reached out and pricked the victim.  It was the signal for fifty others.  The women and children shrieked their delight.  Then it was that Tarzan of the Apes saw his chance.
At times his voice broke, and he was forced to stop reading for the pitiful hopelessness that spoke between the lines.  Then the passages were tinged with a subdued happiness that was even sadder than the rest.  One entry showed an almost hopeful spirit.  To-day our little boy is six months old.  He is sitting in Alice's lap beside the table where I am writing--a happy, healthy, perfect child.
One man went mad and leaped overboard.  Soon another opened his veins and drank his own blood.  When he died they threw him overboard also, though there were those among them who wanted to keep the corpse on board.  Hunger was changing them from human beasts to wild beasts.  On the following morning it was seen that one of the corpses had been partially devoured.
For what seemed an eternity the great brute stood with its forepaws upon the sill, glaring into the little room.  Presently it tried the strength of the lattice with its great talons.  At her feet lay the prostrate form of the Negress.  Jane stooped to grasp the black woman by the shoulder.  Roughly she shook her.
Oh,  But the strangest part of it all is the wonderful creature who rescued us.  I have not seen him, but Mr.  Clayton and papa and Mr.  Clayton in the back, received a spear in his shoulder from some unseen hand in the jungle.  Philander says that we can exist indefinitely on the wild fruit and nuts which abound in the jungle.
At heart he was even a greater coward than Mr.  William Cecil Clayton had imagined.  Two keen eyes had watched every move of the party from the foliage of a nearby tree.  Clayton had taken but a dozen steps.  The rat-faced sailor had half drawn his revolver; the other sailors stood watching the scene intently.
He had never before called her by her given name.  thank you for your chivalrous loyalty to my dear father.  He has told  Clayton noticed that she did not return his familiar salutation, but he felt no misgivings on that score.  She had been through so much.  This was no time to force his love upon her, he quickly realized.
She opened her eyes.  Far below her lay the undergrowth and the hard earth.  About her was the waving foliage of the forest.  It was he!   almost fiercely.  They had come to a point beyond the fire now, and he had turned back to the clearing.
She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan.  He was gone; but this time no fear assailed her for she knew that he would return.  In the grass at the entrance to her bower she saw the imprint of his body where he had lain all night to guard her.  She knew that the fact that he had been there was all that had permitted her to sleep in such peaceful security.  Even the lions and panthers had no fears for her now.
With frightened shrieks they wheeled once more and plunged on in their efforts to escape.  Now indeed was he dressed as a man should be.  None there was who could now doubt his high origin.  How he should have liked to have returned to the tribe to parade before their envious gaze this wondrous finery.  The three of them had hurried toward the village as rapidly as their legs would carry them.
The young played and frolicked about among the trees and bushes.  Others, again, searched the surrounding trees for fruit, nuts, small birds, and eggs.  And all the way Kala carried her little dead baby hugged closely to her breast.  Today there was no sign of the man about, and from where they watched they could see that the cabin door was open.  Slowly, cautiously, and noiselessly they crept through the jungle toward the little cabin.
) February 3 (?), 1909.  As you know, we were supposed to have set out upon a scientific expedition to the Congo.  But after we were well under sail the truth came out.  This they buried well up on the island, and for three years they lived there in constant hope of being rescued.  One by one they sickened and died, until only one man was left, the writer of the letter.
When he died they threw him overboard also, though there were those among them who wanted to keep the corpse on board.  Hunger was changing them from human beasts to wild beasts.  On the following morning it was seen that one of the corpses had been partially devoured.  And then the cruiser had come.  The face above her was one of extraordinary beauty.
At length a simple explanation occurred to her.  The locket had belonged to Lord Greystoke, and the likenesses were of himself and Lady Alice.  This wild creature had simply found it in the cabin by the beach.  How stupid of her not to have thought of that solution before.  At length Tarzan looked up to watch the girl as she examined the locket.
It was these shots that Tarzan and Jane Porter had heard.  In an instant they were in a hand-to-hand fight with some fifty black warriors of Mbonga's village.  Arrows and bullets flew thick and fast.  Four of the twenty were dead, a dozen others were wounded, and Lieutenant D'Arnot was missing.  There was but one thing to do, make camp where they were until daylight.
just the same position upon this card, here, no--a little to the right.  We must leave room for the thumb and the fingers of the left hand.  Tarzan complied readily, asking many questions of the officer during the operation.  I should hate to trust its findings further than to differentiate between individuals.  There it is absolute.
It was agreed that on the morrow Canler was to drive to town and bring back the license and a minister.  Clayton had wanted to leave as soon as the plan was announced, but the girl's tired, hopeless look kept him.  He could not desert her.  Something might happen yet, he tried to console himself by thinking.  Early the next morning Canler set out for town.
Did she love him?  She did not know--now.  She glanced at Clayton out of the corner of her eye.  If he should never touch her again, she reasoned, she would never feel attracted toward him.  She had not loved him, then.  It had been nothing more than a passing hallucination, super-induced by excitement and by personal contact.
Esmeralda broke into uncontrollable sobbing.  Professor Porter finally broke the silence.  to-morrow, as soon as it is light, I shall take what food I can carry and continue the search until I have found Jane.  I will not return  His companions did not reply at once.  At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter's bent old shoulder.
Tarzan was appalled.  He turned red as he compared it with the beautiful broad nostrils of his companion.  Not thirty paces behind the two she crouched--Sabor, the huge lioness--lashing her tail.  Cautiously she moved a great padded paw forward, noiselessly placing it before she lifted the next.  No longer the tail lashed--quiet and straight behind her it lay.
No longer was there safety for bird or beast.  With man it is different.  They flee man as man flees a pestilence.  This necessitated watching by day on Tarzan's part to discover where the arrows were being concealed.  The duties of kingship among the anthropoids are not many or arduous.
Tarzan had learned from his books but scattered fragments of the ways of human beings.  He saw that these people were more wicked than his own apes, and as savage and cruel as Sabor, herself.  Tarzan began to hold his own kind in low esteem.  In a larger circle squatted the women, yelling and beating upon drums.  It reminded Tarzan of the Dum-Dum, and so he knew what to expect.
Like lightning the blows fell, and only ceased when Tarzan felt the limp form crumple beneath him.  One by one the tribe swung down from their arboreal retreats and formed a circle about Tarzan and his vanquished foe.  When they had all come Tarzan turned toward them.  of the Apes and Kala, his mother.  The morning after the Dum-Dum the tribe started slowly back through the forest toward the coast.
He marveled at the sharp filed teeth.  It could have been as revolting to him as is cannibalism to us.  Why, then, this hesitancy! Once more he essayed the effort, but a qualm of nausea overwhelmed him.  He did not understand.  Quickly he lowered Kulonga's body to the ground, removed the noose, and took to the trees again.
With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair, but suddenly he relaxed and dropped back, smiling.  D'Arnot looked at him in surprise.  those fingerprints lay in the cabin of his father, and that all my life  The policeman looked up in astonishment.  Tarzan nodded his head.  For some time they stood there gazing out upon the busy throng beneath, each wrapped in his own thoughts.
It read:   Fingerprints prove you Greystoke.  As Tarzan finished reading, Clayton entered and came toward him with extended hand.  A single word from Tarzan would make a great difference in this man's life.  It would take away his title and his lands and his castles, and--it us.  It seems as though you had your hands full saving our lives in Africa and here.
Clayton in the back, received a spear in his shoulder from some unseen hand in the jungle.  Philander says that we can exist indefinitely on the wild fruit and nuts which abound in the jungle.  I am very tired now, so I shall go to my funny bed of grasses which Mr.  Clayton gathered for me, but will add to this from day to day as things happen.  Lovingly, JANE PORTER.
I will bring you the best of fruits, the tenderest deer, the finest meats that roam the jungle.  I will hunt for you.  I am the greatest of the jungle fighters.  I will fight for you.  I am the mightiest of the jungle fighters.
He would act as he imagined the men in the books would have acted were they in his place.  Then he went back again into the jungle and in a few minutes reappeared with a quantity of soft grasses and ferns.  Two more trips he made until he had quite a pile of material at hand.  Then they sat down together again upon the edge of the drum and tried to talk by signs.  The magnificent diamond locket which hung about Tarzan's neck, had been a source of much wonderment to Jane.
One night, as they were sitting within the cabin before retiring, Tarzan turned to D'Arnot.  D'Arnot pointed toward the northwest.  D'Arnot shook his head.  Tarzan rose, and, going to one of the cupboards, returned with a well-thumbed geography.  How could he make the man understand?  Then he took a pencil and made a tiny point upon the shore of Africa.
something in that jungle, and it's armed, whatever it is.  clouded by a frown of worry and indecision.  can't venture into the jungle with me; yet someone must go in search of your father.  He is more than apt to wandering off aimlessly, regardless of danger or direction, and Mr.  Philander is only a trifle less impractical than he.
Presently a faint rustling of the bush apprised him of the stealthy creeping of the thing behind.  It was gathering for the spring.  At last he saw it, not twenty feet away--the long, lithe, muscular body and tawny head of a huge black-maned lion.  The beast was upon its belly, moving forward very slowly.  As its eyes met Clayton's it stopped, and deliberately, cautiously gathered its hind quarters behind it.
His rope he now held coiled in his right hand; he was almost ready for the kill.  Tarzan was directly over Kulonga, as he made the discovery.  The forest ended abruptly and beyond lay two hundred yards of planted fields between the jungle and the village.  So quickly did Tarzan of the Apes drag back his prey that Kulonga's cry of alarm was throttled in his windpipe.  Tarzan examined the black minutely, for he had never seen any other human being.
For an instant the scene was ludicrous; but only for an instant.  The man was small and rather old, so that the brutality of the act was thus accentuated.  The two sailors picked themselves up, the older man assisting his wounded comrade to rise.  Though the fellow's tone was surly, his words were evidently well meant.  There was in the whole atmosphere of the craft that undefinable something which presages disaster.
He could tell almost to a minute how far the dance had gone.  There would still be life in it, but death then would be the only charity it craved.  The stake stood forty feet from the nearest tree.  Tarzan coiled his rope.  Then there rose suddenly above the fiendish cries of the dancing demons the awful challenge of the ape-man.
An instant she paused thus, as though turned to stone, and then, with an awful scream, she sprang.  Sabor, the lioness, was a wise hunter.  Her wild scream was not a warning.  So far as the ape was concerned, Sabor reasoned correctly.  The little fellow crouched trembling just an instant, but that instant was quite long enough to prove his undoing.
Raising their rifles they fired into the underbrush in the direction from which the missiles had come.  By this time the balance of the party had come up, and volley after volley was fired toward the concealed foe.  It was these shots that Tarzan and Jane Porter had heard.  In an instant they were in a hand-to-hand fight with some fifty black warriors of Mbonga's village.  Arrows and bullets flew thick and fast.
Carefully he felt upon the desk.  Tarzan folded the sheets into a small parcel which he tucked into the quiver with his arrows.  Then he melted away into the jungle as softly and as noiselessly as a shadow.  For twenty minutes he pored over them, when suddenly they commenced to take familiar though distorted shapes.  Ah, they were his old friends, but badly crippled.
Then he took another pencil, but this time he had a definite object in view.  He would attempt to reproduce some of the little bugs that scrambled over the pages of his books.  Thus he made a beginning of writing.  He was a M-A-N, they were A-P-E-S, and the little apes which scurried through the forest top were M-O-N-K-E-Y-S.  He knew, too, that old Sabor was a L-I-O-N-E-S-S, and Histah a S-N-A-K-E, and Tantor an E-L-E-P-H-A-N-T.
He felt himself lifted from the ground.  There was a sensation as of flying, and then he lost consciousness.  Then Clayton turned back slowly toward the cabin.  His heart was filled with happiness.  The woman he loved was safe.
professor turned slowly in the direction of the jungle.  growled the rat-faced sailor.  our officers and robbed us.  he deliberately turned his back full upon the sailor and walked nonchalantly away as if to put him to the test.  The gaze of his fellows was upon him, but still he hesitated.
In the house Professor Porter and Mr.  Philander were immersed in an absorbing discussion of some weighty scientific problem.  On and on they came.  Soon the flames had spanned the road to the south and cut off Canler's return.  Suddenly, out of the northeast, a great black car came careening down the road.
When they had all come Tarzan turned toward them.  of the Apes and Kala, his mother.  The morning after the Dum-Dum the tribe started slowly back through the forest toward the coast.  The body of Tublat lay where it had fallen, for the people of Kerchak do not eat their own dead.  The march was but a leisurely search for food.
Such a thing was unheard of, and it clouded their superstitious minds with all manner of vague fears.  More often was the tribe of Tarzan disturbed by these wandering huntsmen.  Now was the quiet, fierce solitude of the primeval forest broken by new, strange cries.  No longer was there safety for bird or beast.  With man it is different.
He knew, too, that old Sabor was a L-I-O-N-E-S-S, and Histah a S-N-A-K-E, and Tantor an E-L-E-P-H-A-N-T.  And so he learned to read.  From then on his progress was rapid.  Tarzan held a peculiar position in the tribe.  They seemed to consider him one of them and yet in some way different.
He was gone; but this time no fear assailed her for she knew that he would return.  In the grass at the entrance to her bower she saw the imprint of his body where he had lain all night to guard her.  She knew that the fact that he had been there was all that had permitted her to sleep in such peaceful security.  Even the lions and panthers had no fears for her now.  She looked up to see his lithe form drop softly from a near-by tree.
It was a much-relieved party of castaways that found itself once more united.  Esmeralda was positive that it was none other than an angel of the Lord, sent down especially to watch over them.  little shudder at recollection of the awful roar which had followed the killing of the lioness.  Professor Porter and Mr.  Philander were deeply interested in examining the skeletons.
But love is a strange master, and human nature is still stranger, so she asked her question.  the shots in the jungle, very faint and far away, he left me.  for he did not believe it.  The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.  Clayton looked puzzled.
But his was so hopeless--his was pitiful.  But love is a strange master, and human nature is still stranger, so she asked her question.  the shots in the jungle, very faint and far away, he left me.  for he did not believe it.  The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.
Now indeed was he dressed as a man should be.  None there was who could now doubt his high origin.  How he should have liked to have returned to the tribe to parade before their envious gaze this wondrous finery.  The three of them had hurried toward the village as rapidly as their legs would carry them.  No other sound did he utter nor was there any creature in sight about him.
From a great mass of impenetrable foliage a few yards away emerged Tarzan of the Apes to swing quietly in his wake.  Thus Tarzan blazed the forest trails and marked his caches.  As Kulonga continued his journey Tarzan closed on him until he traveled almost over the black's head.  His rope he now held coiled in his right hand; he was almost ready for the kill.  Tarzan was directly over Kulonga, as he made the discovery.
The girl nodded and started toward the door leading to the narrow veranda of the little hotel.  She passed out to await Tarzan and so did not hear the conversation which followed.  The professor had been stricken dumb with surprise by the rapid developments of the past few minutes.  which have just transpired.  By what right, sir, did you interfere between my daughter and Mr.
D'Arnot looked at him in surprise.  those fingerprints lay in the cabin of his father, and that all my life  The policeman looked up in astonishment.  Tarzan nodded his head.  For some time they stood there gazing out upon the busy throng beneath, each wrapped in his own thoughts.  to look at the police officer.
The next few minutes the young Englishman never forgot.  Presently they came to the clearing before the beach.  Tarzan was still issuing orders which Clayton could not understand.  Slowly the lioness was emerging from the window.  At last her shoulders were out.
brain, superinducing total mental aberration.  Then he sat up and felt of various portions of his anatomy.  Whereupon he arose, and, bending a scathing glance upon the still prostrate form of Mr.  Philander, he said:   Mr.  Philander lifted his other eye out of the mud and gazed in speechless rage at Professor Porter.
I wish that you could have known him better, Monsieur.  He was indeed an officer and a gentleman--a title conferred on many, but deserved by so few.  It was quite late when they reached the cabin by the beach.  By the cabin door stood Jane.  answered, his face drawn with fatigue and the sorrow he felt for poor D'Arnot and he emphasized the word before.
The other, in a woman's hand, was sealed.  turning toward the door; but his companion was not there.  D'Arnot walked to the door and looked out.  Tarzan was nowhere in sight.  He called aloud but there was no response.
Clayton was the first to rush out, and there, beyond the harbor's mouth, he saw two vessels lying at anchor.  One was the Arrow and the other a small French cruiser.  At some distance away she stopped, and a boat was lowered and dispatched toward the beach.  As it was drawn up a young officer stepped out.  Clayton told of the abduction of Jane Porter and the need of armed men to aid in the search for her.
There would still be life in it, but death then would be the only charity it craved.  The stake stood forty feet from the nearest tree.  Tarzan coiled his rope.  Then there rose suddenly above the fiendish cries of the dancing demons the awful challenge of the ape-man.  The dancers halted as though turned to stone.
In the brilliant moonlight Tarzan witnessed the whole mad carnival of rage.  He saw the females and the young scamper to the safety of the trees.  Now she was beneath the overhanging limbs and close above her crouched Tarzan, waiting the outcome of the race.  But his fangs never closed in that nut brown flesh.  Like lightning the blows fell, and only ceased when Tarzan felt the limp form crumple beneath him.
Pray allow yourself to be guided by a more mature and practical mind hereafter when in need of  Mr.  Philander was too much relieved at the happy outcome to their adventure to take umbrage at the professor's cruel fling.  Instead he grasped his friend's arm and hastened him forward in the direction of the cabin.  It was a much-relieved party of castaways that found itself once more united.  Esmeralda was positive that it was none other than an angel of the Lord, sent down especially to watch over them.
Again did Tarzan feast well, but this time he did not sleep.  Who else among you has ever killed one of Numa's people?  Tarzan is mightiest amongst you for Tarzan is no ape.  Tarzan there was no word for man, and Tarzan could only write the word in English; he could not pronounce it.  The tribe had gathered about to look upon the proof of his wondrous prowess, and to listen to his words.  Only Kerchak hung back, nursing his hatred and his rage.
He came close to her once more and took hold of her arm.  She turned upon him like a tigress, striking his great breast with her tiny hands.  Tarzan could not understand it.  Since then Tarzan of the Apes had felt a warm, lithe form close pressed to his.  Again he laid his hand upon her arm.
Then she was dragged toward those awful fangs which yawned at her throat.  But ere they touched that fair skin another mood claimed the anthropoid.  The tribe had kept his women.  He must find others to replace them.  But Jane did not once lose consciousness.
At length he handed it to D'Arnot.  The Frenchman had been watching him, and knew that Tarzan was puzzled over the envelope.  How strange it seemed that to a full-grown white man an envelope was a mystery.  D'Arnot opened it and handed the letter back to Tarzan.  Clayton for the kindness you have shown in permitting us the use of your cabin.
They then filled the grave with earth and tramped upon it until it would hold no more.  Their work done the sailors returned to the small boat, and pulled off rapidly toward the Arrow.  If they did not want it why did they not merely throw it into the water?  That would have been much easier.  Ah, he thought, but they do want it.  They have hidden it here because they intend returning for it later.
She noticed that he was watching her and thinking that he wished his ornament again she held it out to him.  Taking her hands in his, when she insisted upon it, he held them tightly to prevent her.  At last she desisted and with a little laugh raised the locket to her lips.  It was a stately and gallant little compliment performed with the grace and dignity of utter unconsciousness of self.  Now, in every fiber of his being, heredity spoke louder than training.
In the rear were a hundred warriors, similar in all respects to the advance guard.  Here there were no white men, no soldiers, nor any rubber or ivory to be gathered for cruel and thankless taskmasters.  Several moons passed by ere the blacks ventured far into the territory surrounding their new village.  But one day, Kulonga, a son of the old king, Mbonga, wandered far into the dense mazes to the west.  Three miles to the west slept the tribe of Kerchak.
And he realized all this without malice or hatred.  To kill was the law of the wild world he knew.  His strange life had left him neither morose nor bloodthirsty.  That he joyed in killing, and that he killed with a joyous laugh upon his handsome lips betokened no innate cruelty.  At length he came to a great tree, heavy laden with thick foliage and loaded with pendant loops of giant creepers.
The deep cannonade of roaring thunder belched forth its fearsome challenge.  The deluge came--all hell broke loose upon the jungle.  The tribe shivering from the cold rain, huddled at the bases of great trees.  For hours the fury of the storm continued without surcease, and still the tribe huddled close in shivering fear.  The end was as sudden as the beginning.
Jane reeled and would have fallen, had not Tarzan, dropping his burden, caught her in his arms.  She did not lose consciousness, but she clung tightly to him, shuddering and trembling like a frightened deer.  Once he pressed his lips lightly upon her forehead, and she did not move, but closed her eyes and sighed.  She could not analyze her feelings, nor did she wish to attempt it.  She wondered and then she smiled.
At their backs was the Dark Continent.  Close around them loomed the impenetrable blackness of the jungle.  Savage beasts roared and growled; noises, hideous and weird, assailed their ears.  They had wandered for miles in search of their camp, but always in the wrong direction.  They were as hopelessly lost as though they suddenly had been transported to another world.
At last he was rewarded by the sounds of the regular breathing within which denotes sleep.  Cautiously he intruded his hand between the meshes of the lattice until his whole arm was within the cabin.  Carefully he felt upon the desk.  Tarzan folded the sheets into a small parcel which he tucked into the quiver with his arrows.  Then he melted away into the jungle as softly and as noiselessly as a shadow.
Professor Porter finally broke the silence.  to-morrow, as soon as it is light, I shall take what food I can carry and continue the search until I have found Jane.  I will not return  His companions did not reply at once.  At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter's bent old shoulder.  Jane is beyond human assistance now.
How did D'Arnot come to have his book?  Presently D'Arnot stopped at a page on which were five tiny little smudges.  He handed the open book to the policeman.  from his desk and examined all three specimens carefully, making notations meanwhile upon a pad of paper.  Tarzan realized now what was the meaning of their visit to the police officer.  The answer to his life's riddle lay in these tiny marks.
Philander was the first to see her.  Philander was very near sighted.  Esmeralda did not bother to verify Mr.  His tone was enough.  She was within the cabin and had slammed and bolted the startled out of Mr.
It was as they had feared.  The cabin was deserted.  The men turned and looked at one another.  A great bitterness rose in his heart.  He would go away, far into the jungle and join his tribe.
In a second book which she hurriedly examined was the single name, GREYSTOKE.  Philander was placing the frail bones of the infant in a bit of sail cloth, he examined the skull minutely.  Then he called Professor Porter to his side, and the two argued in low tones for several minutes.  In his savage, untutored breast new emotions were stirring.  He could not fathom them.
I had this story from one who had no business to tell it to me, or to any other.  When he received this appointment he was both elated and appalled.  For her sake he would have refused the appointment, but she would not have it so.  Instead she insisted that he accept, and, indeed, take her with him.  And here John, Lord Greystoke, and Lady Alice, his wife, vanished from the eyes and from the knowledge of men.
Philander were immersed in an absorbing discussion of some weighty scientific problem.  On and on they came.  Soon the flames had spanned the road to the south and cut off Canler's return.  Suddenly, out of the northeast, a great black car came careening down the road.  With a jolt it stopped before the cottage, and a black-haired giant leaped out to run up onto the porch.
He roared out his hideous challenge time and again.  What though Kala was a fierce and hideous ape!  To Tarzan she had been kind, she had been beautiful.  It was enough, however, for his needs.  Tarzan waited no longer, but leaping into the branches of the trees sped rapidly through the forest.  At his side was the hunting knife of his unknown sire, and across his shoulders the coils of his own long rope.
made a living from it, and been able to send Jane a trifle beside, each year.  She is planning on our going up there the first of the week.  Canler was about to reply, when the sound of footsteps came from the hall without, and Jane entered the room.  college tomorrow to pack his books.  I want you to be sure, papa, to indicate all that you can do without until fall.
the shots in the jungle, very faint and far away, he left me.  for he did not believe it.  The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.  Clayton looked puzzled.  know nothing of him.
kind to die in the jungle if it suited your whim to go elsewhere.  run away from one of your own people, because one of them has run away   D'Arnot closed the cabin door.  He was very nervous.  Even brave men, and D'Arnot was a brave man, are sometimes frightened by solitude.  He loaded one of the rifles and placed it within easy reach.
Philander and I found.  It was so little when I would like to do so much, Jane.  disgrace myself by such a bargain with any man, I prefer that it be one I already despise.  A week passed; a tense, uneventful, but uncomfortable week for all the inmates of the little Wisconsin farmhouse.  Canler was insistent that Jane marry him at once.
he deliberately turned his back full upon the sailor and walked nonchalantly away as if to put him to the test.  The gaze of his fellows was upon him, but still he hesitated.  At heart he was even a greater coward than Mr.  William Cecil Clayton had imagined.  Two keen eyes had watched every move of the party from the foliage of a nearby tree.
The hunting warriors emerged from the forest, and when all were within the palisade the gates were closed and barred.  Many cooking pots were now in evidence about the village.  Suddenly there came a hail from the edge of the clearing.  Sheeta, the leopard, alone of all the jungle folk, tortured his prey.  The ethics of all the others meted a quick and merciful death to their victims.
the fangs of a greater!  Do mighty fighters fly to the trees at the challenge of his kind.  Quietly Tarzan dropped to the ground.  Breathlessly the tribe watched from their lofty perches as Kerchak, still roaring, charged the relatively puny figure.  Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs.  His enormous shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles.
He did not wish to die; but he felt that he was going, for the fever was mounting higher and higher.  That night he lost consciousness.  For three days he was in delirium, and Tarzan sat beside him and bathed his head and hands and washed his wounds.  Tarzan had to lift him that he might drink from the gourd.  Two days later, D'Arnot was tottering about the amphitheater, Tarzan's strong arm about him to keep him from falling.
In the distance were several buildings surrounded by a strong palisade.  Between them and the enclosure stretched a cultivated field in which a number of negroes were working.  The two halted at the edge of the jungle.  Tarzan fitted his bow with a poisoned arrow, but D'Arnot placed a hand upon his arm.  And again he drew back his shaft.
Tarzan of the Apes felt of each article, hefted the spears, smelled of nostrils.  As he took each article from the walls, he placed it in a pile in the center of the room.  Then he stood back, surveyed his work, and grinned.  Tarzan of the Apes enjoyed a joke.  But now he heard, outside, the sounds of many voices, and long mournful howls, and mighty wailing.
The old man looked up, regarding the strong, handsome face of William Cecil Clayton intently.  Perhaps he read there the love that lay in the heart beneath--the love for his daughter.  Now they came back to him, one by one.  It would be cruelly wicked to leave poor Esmeralda here alone, and three of us would be no more successful than one.  But, instead, let two or three or four of you attack him together.
Higher crept the steel forearms of the ape-man about the back of Sabor's neck.  Weaker and weaker became the lioness's efforts.  As quickly as she could she raised the great bar and fairly dragged Clayton within.  saved your life, Miss Porter.  Tarzan of the Apes was gone.
Tarzan realized now what was the meaning of their visit to the police officer.  The answer to his life's riddle lay in these tiny marks.  With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair, but suddenly he relaxed and dropped back, smiling.  D'Arnot looked at him in surprise.  those fingerprints lay in the cabin of his father, and that all my life  The policeman looked up in astonishment.
She would not let Clayton accompany her.  She wanted to be alone, she said, and he respected her wishes.  In the house Professor Porter and Mr.  Philander were immersed in an absorbing discussion of some weighty scientific problem.  On and on they came.
He was very handsome and every inch a gentleman.  She should be very proud of such a husband.  That evening in the little waiting room at the station Tarzan caught Jane alone for a moment.  Turning her head she buried her face in her arms.  And then she told him all--told him the truth word by word, without attempting to shield herself or condone her error.
Even the turning of his head caused him such excruciating agony that he lay still with closed eyes for a long time.  D'Arnot wondered what fate lay in store for him now.  He could neither see nor hear any signs of life about him.  At length he fell into a quiet slumber, nor did he awake again until afternoon.  The Frenchman called faintly.
She wanted to be alone, she said, and he respected her wishes.  In the house Professor Porter and Mr.  Philander were immersed in an absorbing discussion of some weighty scientific problem.  On and on they came.  Soon the flames had spanned the road to the south and cut off Canler's return.
Who else among you has ever killed one of Numa's people?  Tarzan is mightiest amongst you for Tarzan is no ape.  Tarzan there was no word for man, and Tarzan could only write the word in English; he could not pronounce it.  The tribe had gathered about to look upon the proof of his wondrous prowess, and to listen to his words.  Only Kerchak hung back, nursing his hatred and his rage.  Suddenly something snapped in the wicked little brain of the anthropoid.
is deeper than before, for I have thought much of late of the possibility of that cabin having been my birthplace.  I am afraid that  D'Arnot shook his head.  A week later the two men came suddenly upon a clearing in the forest.  In the distance were several buildings surrounded by a strong palisade.  Between them and the enclosure stretched a cultivated field in which a number of negroes were working.
It was but two o'clock when the head of the column halted upon the edge of the clearing.  For half an hour the men with Lieutenant Charpentier crouched in the dense foliage of the jungle, waiting the signal.  To them it seemed like hours.  They could see natives in the fields, and others moving in and out of the village gate.  The natives in the field dropped their implements and broke madly for the palisade.
By this time Professor Porter and Mr.  Philander had come up.  we look?  God could not have been so cruel as to take my little girl  roughly by the shoulder.  Esmeralda did as she was bade.  scarcely breathed as he voiced the horrible thought.
I shall be played with no longer.  I have the license and here is the preacher.  disagreeable inflection; and taking Jane Porter by the arm, he started to lead her toward the waiting minister.  But scarcely had he taken a single step ere a heavy hand closed upon his arm with a grip of steel.  Jane turned in horrified surprise toward Tarzan.
Greystoke never turned a hair, but stood eying the excited man with level gaze.  The fellow proved most ungrateful.  Fairly jumped at me like a mad dog.  are safely off the thing I shall spend my energies in looking after our own welfare.  And I rather fancy the first step to that end should be to go to our cabin and look over my revolvers.
Clayton had wandered to the point at the harbor's mouth to look for passing vessels.  Professor Porter was wandering along the beach south of the camp with Mr.  Philander at his elbow, urging him to turn his steps back before the two became again the sport of some savage beast.  Tarzan waited in silence before the door of the little house until they should return.  His thoughts were of the beautiful white girl.
One night, as they were sitting within the cabin before retiring, Tarzan turned to D'Arnot.  D'Arnot pointed toward the northwest.  D'Arnot shook his head.  Tarzan rose, and, going to one of the cupboards, returned with a well-thumbed geography.  How could he make the man understand?  Then he took a pencil and made a tiny point upon the shore of Africa.
If you go, I shall go     It took a long time to make him understand even imperfectly.  need you work for it.  I have enough money for two--enough for twenty.  Each man carrying a rifle and ammunition, beside bedding and some food and cooking utensils.  The latter seemed to Tarzan a most useless encumbrance, so he threw his away.
Now, indeed, was the life of Tublat a living nightmare.  In Tarzan's clever little mind many thoughts revolved, and back of these was his divine power of reason.  But that came in later years.  The wanderings of the tribe brought them often near the closed and silent cabin by the little land-locked harbor.  To Tarzan this was always a source of never-ending mystery and pleasure.
The ape-man, hiding safe behind a screen of foliage, sat watching this new specimen of his own race intently.  At intervals Clayton called aloud and finally it came to Tarzan that he was searching for the old man.  It was Sheeta, the leopard.  Now, Tarzan heard the soft bending of grasses and wondered why the young white man was not warned.  Could it be he had failed to note the loud warning?  Never before had Tarzan known Sheeta to be so clumsy.
A great bitterness rose in his heart.  He would go away, far into the jungle and join his tribe.  Never would he see one of his own kind again, nor could he bear the thought of returning to the cabin.  And the Frenchman?  D'Arnot?  What of him?  He could get along as Tarzan had.  Tarzan did not want to see him more.
After these came a huge Negress clothed like Solomon as to colors.  She gave him a brave and pretty smile of thanks, but no words passed between them.  In silence the party advanced toward the cabin.  The men put down their burdens, and then one caught sight of the notice which Tarzan had posted.  Thus addressed, the old man came slowly to where the sailors stood, followed by the other members of his party.
He felt himself lifted from the ground.  There was a sensation as of flying, and then he lost consciousness.  Then Clayton turned back slowly toward the cabin.  His heart was filled with happiness.  The woman he loved was safe.
Finally his eyes rested upon a woman directly beneath him.  Before her was a small cauldron standing over a low fire and in it bubbled a thick, reddish, tarry mass.  Tarzan of the Apes was fascinated.  Here was the secret of the terrible destructiveness of The Archer's tiny missiles.  How he should like to have more of those little death-dealing slivers.
Philander's faulty memory.  Philander lay as he had fallen, frozen into the horrid semblance of death.  Jane had been watching his antics in mild-eyed surprise.  Now she laughed--a little choking gurgle of a laugh; but it was enough.  Philander rolled over upon his side and peered about.
The second one he turned over and over, searching for an opening--he had never seen a sealed envelope before.  At length he handed it to D'Arnot.  The Frenchman had been watching him, and knew that Tarzan was puzzled over the envelope.  How strange it seemed that to a full-grown white man an envelope was a mystery.  D'Arnot opened it and handed the letter back to Tarzan.
When all the adult males had joined in the thin line of circling dancers the attack commenced.  Tarzan was one of the wild, leaping horde.  Their leaps and bounds increased, their bared fangs dripped saliva, and their lips and breasts were flecked with foam.  Then, as one, the males rushed headlong upon the thing which their terrific blows had reduced to a mass of hairy pulp.  Tarzan, more than the apes, craved and needed flesh.
He heard a noise in the tree above him.  Some new danger, he thought, but he dared not take his eyes from the yellow green orbs before him.  To his agility, to his brain and to his long keen knife he owed his supremacy.  Then, squatting upon his haunches, he proceeded to eat, first motioning Clayton to join him.  If so he must speak English.
She realized that it was because she had forgotten the fear that prompted her to accept it.  For hours they swung slowly along.  Tarzan of the Apes did not hurry.  But again the timidity of the wild thing in the face of human habitation swept over Tarzan of the Apes.  He drew back, shaking his head.
He is the great white giant who wore the diamond locket upon his breast.  I found a note you wrote me lying among the leaves beneath a tree near the cabin.  But know that I am always your friend, JANE PORTER.  Tarzan sat with gaze fixed upon the floor for nearly an hour.  It was evident to him from the notes that they did not know that he and Tarzan of the Apes were one and the same.
Slowly she turned and walked back to the cabin.  She tried to imagine her wood-god by her side in the saloon of an ocean liner.  She saw him as she introduced him to her friends--uncouth, illiterate--a boor; and the girl winced.  She drew it out, holding it in the palm of her hand for a moment with tear-blurred eyes bent upon it.  Then she raised it to her lips, and crushing it there buried her face in the soft ferns, sobbing.
The girl was trying to collect her thoughts.  I see now  There was just the faintest tinge of bitterness in his voice.  But before she could go on a sudden turn in the road brought them into the midst of a little hamlet.  Before them stood Clayton's car surrounded by the party he had brought from the cottage.  For a moment no one noticed Tarzan, sitting silently in his seat.
For a moment--the first in her young life--she knew the meaning of love.  Now he was surprised that she repulsed him.  He came close to her once more and took hold of her arm.  She turned upon him like a tigress, striking his great breast with her tiny hands.  Tarzan could not understand it.
They did not know the cause of his outcry, only that it was a warning of danger ahead.  Raising their rifles they fired into the underbrush in the direction from which the missiles had come.  By this time the balance of the party had come up, and volley after volley was fired toward the concealed foe.  It was these shots that Tarzan and Jane Porter had heard.  In an instant they were in a hand-to-hand fight with some fifty black warriors of Mbonga's village.
What do you make of it,  Professor Archimedes Q.  Porter adjusted his spectacles.  professor turned slowly in the direction of the jungle.  growled the rat-faced sailor.  our officers and robbed us.
Among the tribe he no longer had friends as of old.  Tarzan would have liked to subdue the ugly beast without recourse to knife or arrows.  Tarzan did not repeat his warning signal, but instead rushed bodily upon the waiting Terkoz.  This it was which saved him from death beneath the iron muscles and tearing fangs of Terkoz.  His arm was passed beneath Terkoz's arm from behind and his hand and forearm encircled the back of Terkoz's neck.
I will not return  His companions did not reply at once.  At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter's bent old shoulder.  Jane is beyond human assistance now.  What was once my dear little girl shall not lie alone and friendless in the awful jungle.  and when the spirit of her mother is abroad, it will find us together in death, as it has always found us in life.
Tarzan of the Apes was gone.  Clayton called several times, but there was no reply, and so the two returned to the greater safety of the interior.  And now, for Jane Porter, the reaction came, and she threw herself upon the bench, sobbing with hysterical laughter.  Several miles south of the cabin, upon a strip of sandy beach, stood two old men, arguing.  Before them stretched the broad Atlantic.
She could not analyze her feelings, nor did she wish to attempt it.  She wondered and then she smiled.  Tarzan shook his head, and an expression of wistful and pathetic longing sobered his laughing eyes.  Tarzan had long since reached a decision as to what his future procedure should be.  He had had time to recollect all that he had read of the ways of men and women in the books at the cabin.
He removed his hunting knife from its sheath and handed it to her hilt first, again motioning her into the bower.  And thus the rising sun found them in the morning.  Slowly the circumstances of her position crept one by one into her mind.  She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan.  He was gone; but this time no fear assailed her for she knew that he would return.
But before she could go on a sudden turn in the road brought them into the midst of a little hamlet.  Before them stood Clayton's car surrounded by the party he had brought from the cottage.  For a moment no one noticed Tarzan, sitting silently in his seat.  Clayton was the first to remember, and, turning, held out his hand.  pardon me if I do not speak to you in English.
I will have my hands full keeping your neck from beneath the  Tarzan lowered his bow and smiled.  yet not kill them here.  Presently one of the blacks looked up, and beholding Tarzan, turned, shrieking, toward the palisade.  The latter eyed them in puzzled bewilderment.  The man had lowered his rifle and now advanced with outstretched hand.
of the Apes and Kala, his mother.  The morning after the Dum-Dum the tribe started slowly back through the forest toward the coast.  The body of Tublat lay where it had fallen, for the people of Kerchak do not eat their own dead.  The march was but a leisurely search for food.  The nuts they cracked between their powerful jaws, or, if too hard, broke by pounding between stones.
Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and on each breast three concentric circles.  In the rear were a hundred warriors, similar in all respects to the advance guard.  Here there were no white men, no soldiers, nor any rubber or ivory to be gathered for cruel and thankless taskmasters.  Several moons passed by ere the blacks ventured far into the territory surrounding their new village.  But one day, Kulonga, a son of the old king, Mbonga, wandered far into the dense mazes to the west.
He wondered why they had dug a great hole in the ground merely to bury dry bones.  Surely there was no sense in that; no one wanted to steal dry bones.  Instantly her tears ceased.  And, sure enough, the Arrow was being worked toward the open sea, slowly, through the harbor's entrance.  had not killed him I know that he would have seen that we were properly   Jane looked at her father sadly.
Soon the flames had spanned the road to the south and cut off Canler's return.  Suddenly, out of the northeast, a great black car came careening down the road.  With a jolt it stopped before the cottage, and a black-haired giant leaped out to run up onto the porch.  Without a pause he rushed into the house.  On the couch lay Clayton.
John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, did not ask to be transferred to the British man-of-war.  But keep a still tongue in yer 'ead an' when ye 'ear shootin' git below an' stay there.  fellow went on with his polishing, which carried him away from where the Claytons were standing.  prompted to 'keep a still tongue in my 'ead.  I realize the danger which must follow, but  borrowing trouble.
No longer was there safety for bird or beast.  With man it is different.  They flee man as man flees a pestilence.  This necessitated watching by day on Tarzan's part to discover where the arrows were being concealed.  The duties of kingship among the anthropoids are not many or arduous.
Surely there was no sense in that; no one wanted to steal dry bones.  Instantly her tears ceased.  And, sure enough, the Arrow was being worked toward the open sea, slowly, through the harbor's entrance.  had not killed him I know that he would have seen that we were properly   Jane looked at her father sadly.  His daughter watched him with a pathetic smile upon her lips, and then turning to Mr.
The brilliant stones gleamed strangely against his smooth, brown hide.  It was the diary of John Clayton, Lord Greystoke--kept in French, as had always been his custom.  Early the following morning he set out, and, traveling rapidly, he came before midday to the clearing.  The day wore on, and still Tarzan of the Apes crouched above the unsuspecting woman at the cauldron.  Presently the workers in the fields returned.
For hours the fury of the storm continued without surcease, and still the tribe huddled close in shivering fear.  The end was as sudden as the beginning.  The wind ceased, the sun shone forth--nature smiled once more.  And, so--as Nature forgot, her children forgot also.  Busy life went on as it had been before the darkness and the fright.
From where Tarzan and the girl stood they could not see the two vessels lying at anchor in the harbor.  Tarzan pointed toward the sounds, touched his breast and pointed again.  He was going, and something told her that it was because he thought her people were in danger.  Again he kissed her.  He was gone--and Jane turned to walk across the clearing to the cabin.
He drew back, shaking his head.  The girl came close to him, looking up with pleading eyes.  Somehow she could not bear the thought of his going back into the terrible jungle alone.  From far in the distance came the faint sound of many guns.  Tarzan and Jane raised their heads.
The natives were not yet in sight, though he could plainly hear them approaching across the plantation.  They must be very near.  Like a flash he sprang across the opening to the pile of arrows.  The natives filed up the street, four of them bearing the dead body of Kulonga.  Behind trailed the women, uttering strange cries and weird lamentation.
Most of them, therefore, were more than content with the change in rulers.  During this period Tarzan paid many nocturnal visits to the village, where he often renewed his supply of arrows.  Such a thing was unheard of, and it clouded their superstitious minds with all manner of vague fears.  More often was the tribe of Tarzan disturbed by these wandering huntsmen.  Now was the quiet, fierce solitude of the primeval forest broken by new, strange cries.
The girl was trying to collect her thoughts.  I see now  There was just the faintest tinge of bitterness in his voice.  But before she could go on a sudden turn in the road brought them into the midst of a little hamlet.  Before them stood Clayton's car surrounded by the party he had brought from the cottage.  For a moment no one noticed Tarzan, sitting silently in his seat.
A moment later the passenger was entering the library of the old home.  Professor Archimedes Q.  Porter fidgeted in his armchair.  The subject always made him uncomfortable.  He could not understand why.
So much had Tarzan seen that day that his head was in a whirl of wonder.  But the most wonderful sight of all, to him, was the face of the beautiful white girl.  Here at last was one of his own kind; of that he was positive.  And the young man and the two old men; they, too, were much as he had pictured his own people to be.  But doubtless they were as ferocious and cruel as other men he had seen.
Against the long canines of the ape was pitted the thin blade of the man's knife.  And Tarzan?  He did what no red-blooded man needs lessons in doing.  He took his woman in his arms and smothered her upturned, panting lips with kisses.  For a moment Jane lay there with half-closed eyes.  For a moment--the first in her young life--she knew the meaning of love.
But love is a strange master, and human nature is still stranger, so she asked her question.  the shots in the jungle, very faint and far away, he left me.  for he did not believe it.  The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.  Clayton looked puzzled.
Possibly Ara was a friend with whom the Archer was sharing his food.  All day Tarzan followed Kulonga, hovering above him in the trees like some malign spirit.  Twice more he saw him hurl his arrows of destruction--once at Dango, the hyena, and again at Manu, the monkey.  In each instance the animal died almost instantly, for Kulonga's poison was very fresh and very deadly.  Tarzan thought much on this wondrous method of slaying as he swung slowly along at a safe distance behind his quarry.
Tarzan looked at the book in surprise.  How did D'Arnot come to have his book?  Presently D'Arnot stopped at a page on which were five tiny little smudges.  He handed the open book to the policeman.  from his desk and examined all three specimens carefully, making notations meanwhile upon a pad of paper.  Tarzan realized now what was the meaning of their visit to the police officer.
Bless me!  But it is most  recall any of the details of the finding and burying of three skeletons    Mr.  Philander eyed Tarzan narrowly.  may clear up a mystery.  It can do no worse, at any rate, than to leave it still a mystery.  Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her, as had the stalwart forest god.
A boat was lowered, and in it a great chest was placed.  In the stern of the boat, as it drew nearer, Tarzan saw the rat-faced man.  It was but a few minutes later that the boat touched the beach.  The men jumped out and lifted the great chest to the sand.  They were on the north side of the point so that their presence was concealed from those at the cabin.
The next morning Clayton left early with the relief expedition in search of Lieutenant D'Arnot.  There were two hundred armed men this time, with ten officers and two surgeons, and provisions for a week.  They carried bedding and hammocks, the latter for transporting their sick and wounded.  It was a determined and angry company--a punitive expedition as well as one of relief.  From there on the elephant-track led straight to Mbonga's village.
Suddenly Kerchak's finger closed upon the trigger.  Another thing she did, and which made traveling an onerous trial for her.  She had seen one child fall from her back to a terrible death, and she would take no further chances with this.  Why, it could not even find food alone, and more than twelve moons had passed since Kala had come upon it.  carry him and protect him.
I could never face you nor any other honest person if I repudiated my promise to Mr.  In the center of the greensward a young woman sat upon a little mound of earth, and beside her sat a young giant.  They ate pleasant fruit and looked into each other's eyes and smiled.  They were very happy, and they were all alone.  Tarzan took the envelope and tore it open.
Bless me!  But it is most  recall any of the details of the finding and burying of three skeletons    Mr.  Philander eyed Tarzan narrowly.  may clear up a mystery.  It can do no worse, at any rate, than to leave it still a mystery.  Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her, as had the stalwart forest god.
Finally his eyes rested upon a woman directly beneath him.  Before her was a small cauldron standing over a low fire and in it bubbled a thick, reddish, tarry mass.  Tarzan of the Apes was fascinated.  Here was the secret of the terrible destructiveness of The Archer's tiny missiles.  How he should like to have more of those little death-dealing slivers.
The dancers halted as though turned to stone.  The rope sped with singing whir high above the heads of the blacks.  It was quite invisible in the flaring lights of the camp fires.  D'Arnot opened his eyes.  A huge black, standing directly before him, lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand.
They saw no signs of natives nor were they molested by wild beasts.  Their journey was a miracle of ease.  Tarzan asked questions and learned rapidly.  three weeks upon the march.  Why, Sabor, single handed, could exterminate a thousand  D'Arnot laughed.
But love is a strange master, and human nature is still stranger, so she asked her question.  the shots in the jungle, very faint and far away, he left me.  for he did not believe it.  The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.  Clayton looked puzzled.
He breathed a silent prayer that he be quickly delivered from his torture.  But the death he prayed for was not to be so easily had.  Soon the warriors beat the women away from their prisoner.  Presently they reached the center of the village.  There D'Arnot was bound securely to the great post from which no live man had ever been released.
beneath Tarzan's tree.  us with the treasure aboard it will all be confiscated anyway.  shrieked Snipes, with a volley of frightful oaths.  location so's we kin find it again.  You, Tom, and Bill, take a couple    The men all looked up angrily.
She did not see Clayton again that day.  The next morning Clayton left early with the relief expedition in search of Lieutenant D'Arnot.  There were two hundred armed men this time, with ten officers and two surgeons, and provisions for a week.  They carried bedding and hammocks, the latter for transporting their sick and wounded.  It was a determined and angry company--a punitive expedition as well as one of relief.
When Kulonga awoke he found that his bow and arrows had disappeared.  The black warrior was furious and frightened, but more frightened than furious.  Kulonga was panic-stricken.  His only hope lay in reaching the village of Mbonga as quickly as his legs would carry him.  That he was not far from home he was certain, so he took the trail at a rapid trot.
He did not understand.  Quickly he lowered Kulonga's body to the ground, removed the noose, and took to the trees again.  From a lofty perch Tarzan viewed the village of thatched huts across the intervening plantation.  Tarzan of the Apes was no sentimentalist.  He knew nothing of the brotherhood of man.
Philander rolled over upon his side and peered about.  At length he discovered her.  He scrambled to his feet and rushed toward her.  He could not believe that it was she, and alive.  surprise and exuberant delight at seeing you safe and well again that I scarcely know what I am saying, really.
One of the others commenced to ply his pick to the ground.  The soil was soft and he threw aside the pick and grasped a shovel; then the others joined him.  Earth was shovelled in and tramped down about the chest until the bottom of the grave showed level and uniform.  They then filled the grave with earth and tramped upon it until it would hold no more.  Their work done the sailors returned to the small boat, and pulled off rapidly toward the Arrow.
But after we were well under sail the truth came out.  This they buried well up on the island, and for three years they lived there in constant hope of being rescued.  One by one they sickened and died, until only one man was left, the writer of the letter.  He did not mention the mutiny or the chest of buried treasure.  Canler had asked for no security, and you know, dearie, what that will mean for me if papa cannot meet them.
DO NOT HARM THE THINGS WHICH ARE TARZAN'S.  discovered a runaway simian from the London Zoo who has brought back a European education to his jungle home.  What do you make of it,  Professor Archimedes Q.  Porter adjusted his spectacles.  professor turned slowly in the direction of the jungle.
He removed his hunting knife from its sheath and handed it to her hilt first, again motioning her into the bower.  And thus the rising sun found them in the morning.  Slowly the circumstances of her position crept one by one into her mind.  She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan.  He was gone; but this time no fear assailed her for she knew that he would return.
Then, as one, the males rushed headlong upon the thing which their terrific blows had reduced to a mass of hairy pulp.  Tarzan, more than the apes, craved and needed flesh.  So little Tarzan wriggled out from beneath the struggling mass, clutching his grisly prize close to his breast.  Among those circling futilely the outskirts of the banqueters was old Tublat.  In them, too, was greed for the toothsome dainty the boy carried.
She gave him a brave and pretty smile of thanks, but no words passed between them.  In silence the party advanced toward the cabin.  The men put down their burdens, and then one caught sight of the notice which Tarzan had posted.  Thus addressed, the old man came slowly to where the sailors stood, followed by the other members of his party.  Adjusting his spectacles he looked for a moment at the placard and then, turning away, strolled   thousand pardons.
Only Kerchak hung back, nursing his hatred and his rage.  Suddenly something snapped in the wicked little brain of the anthropoid.  With a frightful roar the great beast sprang among the assemblage.  the fangs of a greater!  Do mighty fighters fly to the trees at the challenge of his kind.  Quietly Tarzan dropped to the ground.
In agony the man watched, fearful to launch his spear, powerless to fly.  He heard a noise in the tree above him.  Some new danger, he thought, but he dared not take his eyes from the yellow green orbs before him.  To his agility, to his brain and to his long keen knife he owed his supremacy.  Then, squatting upon his haunches, he proceeded to eat, first motioning Clayton to join him.
He could not understand why.  Canler was a splendid match.  off first on one ground and then another.  I have always the feeling   relief marking his voice.  hanging about for months.
I am just learning it,  himself.  Clayton started back in surprise.  And Professor Porter and Mr.  The party now entered the modest little hostelry, where Clayton soon made arrangements for their entertainment.  I had hoped, er--I had thought or--er--how very happy  often admonished my pupils to count ten before speaking.
Here Tarzan released them, and, pointing toward the little building, vanished into the jungle beside them.  Pray allow yourself to be guided by a more mature and practical mind hereafter when in need of  Mr.  Philander was too much relieved at the happy outcome to their adventure to take umbrage at the professor's cruel fling.  Instead he grasped his friend's arm and hastened him forward in the direction of the cabin.  It was a much-relieved party of castaways that found itself once more united.
Mbonga could explain nothing of the strange events that had taken place.  Tarzan of the Apes watched them for a while from his lofty perch in the great tree.  The sun was high in the heavens.  Tarzan had not broken fast this day, and it was many miles to where lay the toothsome remains of Horta the boar.  So he turned his back upon the village of Mbonga and melted away into the leafy fastness of the forest.
Instinctively the girl shuddered, and shrank closer to the black woman.  groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just beyond the thin wall.  A gentle scratching sound was heard on the door.  Again they stopped--beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now glued themselves.  beyond, she saw framed in the tiny square of the latticed window the head of a huge lioness.
In another instant the figure of a woman darkened the entrance of the hut.  Tarzan drew back silently to the far wall, and his hand sought the long, keen hunting knife of his father.  The woman came quickly to the center of the hut.  There she paused for an instant feeling about with her hands for the thing she sought.  Evidently it was not in its accustomed place, for she explored ever nearer and nearer the wall where Tarzan stood.
One entry showed an almost hopeful spirit.  To-day our little boy is six months old.  He is sitting in Alice's lap beside the table where I am writing--a happy, healthy, perfect child.  When D'Arnot had finished the diary the two men sat in silence for some minutes.  is deeper than before, for I have thought much of late of the possibility of that cabin having been my birthplace.
On the placid waters of the landlocked harbor floated a great ship, and on the beach a small boat was drawn up.  But, most wonderful of all, a number of white men like himself were moving about between the beach and his cabin.  Tarzan saw that in many ways they were like the men of his picture books.  He crept closer through the trees until he was quite close above them.  There were ten men, swarthy, sun-tanned, villainous looking fellows.
Never would he see one of his own kind again, nor could he bear the thought of returning to the cabin.  And the Frenchman?  D'Arnot?  What of him?  He could get along as Tarzan had.  Tarzan did not want to see him more.  He wanted to get away from everything that might remind him of Jane.  As Tarzan stood upon the threshold brooding, D'Arnot had entered the cabin.
Suddenly there came a hail from the edge of the clearing.  Sheeta, the leopard, alone of all the jungle folk, tortured his prey.  The ethics of all the others meted a quick and merciful death to their victims.  Tarzan had learned from his books but scattered fragments of the ways of human beings.  He saw that these people were more wicked than his own apes, and as savage and cruel as Sabor, herself.
Then one of them laughed and slapped the little man upon the back.  There was much more talk and gesticulating, but less quarreling.  Slipping in at the door he found that everything had been ransacked.  His books and pencils strewed the floor.  His weapons and shields and other little store of treasures were littered about.
Soon another opened his veins and drank his own blood.  When he died they threw him overboard also, though there were those among them who wanted to keep the corpse on board.  Hunger was changing them from human beasts to wild beasts.  On the following morning it was seen that one of the corpses had been partially devoured.  And then the cruiser had come.
Why, Sabor, single handed, could exterminate a thousand  D'Arnot laughed.  and navies, its great cities, and its mighty engineering works.  But Kerchak could never think far enough ahead to take advantage of any such opportunity.  Even Kala, my mother, could never plan ahead.  Tarzan fished the little black diary from the bottom of his quiver, and handed it to his companion.
Neither spoke, yet both knew before they opened the closed door what they would find beyond.  Tarzan lifted the latch and pushed the great door in upon its wooden hinges.  It was as they had feared.  The cabin was deserted.  The men turned and looked at one another.
A week passed; a tense, uneventful, but uncomfortable week for all the inmates of the little Wisconsin farmhouse.  Canler was insistent that Jane marry him at once.  At length she gave in from sheer loathing of the continued and hateful importuning.  It was agreed that on the morrow Canler was to drive to town and bring back the license and a minister.  Clayton had wanted to leave as soon as the plan was announced, but the girl's tired, hopeless look kept him.
Tarzan was an interested spectator.  His desire to kill burned fiercely in his wild breast, but his desire to learn was even greater.  He would follow this savage creature for a while and know from whence he came.  He could kill him at his leisure later, when the bow and deadly arrows were laid aside.  With his knife he severed many strips of meat from Horta's carcass, but he did not cook them.
Canler had asked for no security, and you know, dearie, what that will mean for me if papa cannot meet them.  Oh, how I detest that man!  We all tried to look on the bright side of things, but Mr.  Clayton--he joined us in London just for the adventure--both felt as skeptical as I.  It was SIMPLY FILLED with gold coin, and was so heavy that four men bent underneath its weight.  Oh, it was the most terrifying experience one could imagine--I cannot even write of it.
At last he was free.  He had not realized what a prisoner he had been.  How easy it would be to circle back to the coast, and then make toward the south and his own jungle and cabin.  Now he caught the scent of Numa, for he was traveling up wind.  Then with his foot upon the carcass of Numa, he raised his voice in the awesome victory cry of his savage tribe.
Her great padded feet fell soft and noiseless on the narrow trail.  Her head was high in ever alert attention; her long tail moved slowly in sinuous and graceful undulations.  Like a thing of bronze, motionless as death, sat Tarzan.  Sabor passed beneath.  One stride beyond she took--a second, a third, and then the silent coil shot out above her.
In his little evil brain he sought for some excuse to wreak his hatred upon Tarzan.  The next day Tarzan was practicing with his bow and arrows at the first gleam of dawn.  Tarzan examined these all minutely.  The photograph he liked most of all, for the eyes were smiling, and the face was open and frank.  The brilliant stones gleamed strangely against his smooth, brown hide.
And then Tarzan of the Apes did just what his first ancestor would have done.  He took his woman in his arms and carried her into the jungle.  Early the following morning the four within the little cabin by the beach were awakened by the booming of a cannon.  Clayton was the first to rush out, and there, beyond the harbor's mouth, he saw two vessels lying at anchor.  One was the Arrow and the other a small French cruiser.
He had taken but a step, however, ere his quick ear caught the sound of approaching footsteps immediately without.  In another instant the figure of a woman darkened the entrance of the hut.  Tarzan drew back silently to the far wall, and his hand sought the long, keen hunting knife of his father.  The woman came quickly to the center of the hut.  There she paused for an instant feeling about with her hands for the thing she sought.
We live here together always in my house.  I will bring you the best of fruits, the tenderest deer, the finest meats that roam the jungle.  I will hunt for you.  I am the greatest of the jungle fighters.  I will fight for you.
Drawing the shaft far back he drove the poisoned missile straight into the heart of the great anthropoid.  With a horrid scream Kala plunged forward upon her face before the astonished members of her tribe.  When he arrived he found the entire tribe gathered jabbering about the dead body of his slain mother.  Tarzan's grief and anger were unbounded.  He roared out his hideous challenge time and again.
Tarzan knew what the result would be.  In an instant the neck would break.  Then there came to Terkoz's rescue the same thing that had put him in these sore straits--a man's reasoning power.  the jungle there is none so great.  no more with your king or your people, for next time I shall kill you.
So Tarzan of the Apes did the only thing he knew to assure Jane of her safety.  He removed his hunting knife from its sheath and handed it to her hilt first, again motioning her into the bower.  And thus the rising sun found them in the morning.  Slowly the circumstances of her position crept one by one into her mind.  She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan.
Two more trips he made until he had quite a pile of material at hand.  Then they sat down together again upon the edge of the drum and tried to talk by signs.  The magnificent diamond locket which hung about Tarzan's neck, had been a source of much wonderment to Jane.  She pointed to it now, and Tarzan removed it and handed the pretty bauble to her.  She looked up at Tarzan to find him leaning toward her gazing on the miniatures with an expression of astonishment.
But nowhere was pictured any of his own people; in all the book was none that resembled Kerchak, or Tublat, or Kala.  It was his first introduction to the letters of the alphabet, and he was over ten years old.  So what wonder that the little boy was quite at a loss to guess the meaning of these strange figures.  Near the middle of the book he found his old enemy, Sabor, the lioness, and further on, coiled Histah, the snake.  Oh, it was most engrossing!  Never before in all his ten years had he enjoyed anything so much.
Her wild scream was not a warning.  So far as the ape was concerned, Sabor reasoned correctly.  The little fellow crouched trembling just an instant, but that instant was quite long enough to prove his undoing.  Not so, however, with Tarzan, the man-child.  So the scream of Sabor, the lioness, galvanized the brain and muscles of little Tarzan into instant action.
Clayton, with Jane, the professor and Esmeralda occupied Clayton's car, while Tarzan took Mr.  Philander in with him.  Bless me!  But it is most  recall any of the details of the finding and burying of three skeletons    Mr.  Philander eyed Tarzan narrowly.  may clear up a mystery.
He was not interested in the location of the encounter, for he judged that that would soon be over.  Those who were killed he could not aid, those who escaped would not need his assistance.  It was to those who had neither been killed or escaped that he hastened.  And he knew that he would find them by the great post in the center of Mbonga village.  He knew, too, that they seldom lost much time before consummating the fiendish purpose of their captures.
He felt his hair rising upon his scalp.  Gently the door opened until a thin crack showed something standing just beyond.  D'Arnot sighted along the blue barrel at the crack of the door--and then he pulled the trigger.  there are two friends in that jungle who will come out of it some day expecting to find us awaiting them.  has saved the lives of every member of my father's party is the other.
As she charged, Kulonga unslung his bow and fitted an arrow with almost unthinkable quickness.  Drawing the shaft far back he drove the poisoned missile straight into the heart of the great anthropoid.  With a horrid scream Kala plunged forward upon her face before the astonished members of her tribe.  When he arrived he found the entire tribe gathered jabbering about the dead body of his slain mother.  Tarzan's grief and anger were unbounded.
run away from one of your own people, because one of them has run away   D'Arnot closed the cabin door.  He was very nervous.  Even brave men, and D'Arnot was a brave man, are sometimes frightened by solitude.  He loaded one of the rifles and placed it within easy reach.  Then he went to the desk and took up the unsealed letter addressed to Tarzan.
Clayton stood rigid, with raised spear.  Presently a faint rustling of the bush apprised him of the stealthy creeping of the thing behind.  It was gathering for the spring.  At last he saw it, not twenty feet away--the long, lithe, muscular body and tawny head of a huge black-maned lion.  The beast was upon its belly, moving forward very slowly.
His heart was filled with happiness.  The woman he loved was safe.  He wondered by what manner of miracle she had been spared.  To see her alive seemed almost unbelievable.  As he approached the cabin he saw Jane coming out.
At last her shoulders were out.  And then Clayton saw an incredible thing.  Higher crept the steel forearms of the ape-man about the back of Sabor's neck.  Weaker and weaker became the lioness's efforts.  As quickly as she could she raised the great bar and fairly dragged Clayton within.
The ape-man knew no god, but he was as near to worshipping his divinity as mortal man ever comes to worship.  He wrote:   I am Tarzan of the Apes.  We live here together always in my house.  I will bring you the best of fruits, the tenderest deer, the finest meats that roam the jungle.  I will hunt for you.
She saw him as she introduced him to her friends--uncouth, illiterate--a boor; and the girl winced.  She drew it out, holding it in the palm of her hand for a moment with tear-blurred eyes bent upon it.  Then she raised it to her lips, and crushing it there buried her face in the soft ferns, sobbing.  She did not see Clayton again that day.  The next morning Clayton left early with the relief expedition in search of Lieutenant D'Arnot.
He was right above them when he discovered them.  One piercing scream escaped her lips as the brute hand clutched her arm.  Then she was dragged toward those awful fangs which yawned at her throat.  But ere they touched that fair skin another mood claimed the anthropoid.  The tribe had kept his women.
Drawing the shaft far back he drove the poisoned missile straight into the heart of the great anthropoid.  With a horrid scream Kala plunged forward upon her face before the astonished members of her tribe.  When he arrived he found the entire tribe gathered jabbering about the dead body of his slain mother.  Tarzan's grief and anger were unbounded.  He roared out his hideous challenge time and again.
She pointed to it now, and Tarzan removed it and handed the pretty bauble to her.  She looked up at Tarzan to find him leaning toward her gazing on the miniatures with an expression of astonishment.  His manner clearly denoted that he had never before seen them, nor imagined that the locket opened.  Tarzan was still gazing with fixity at the two faces.  Carefully he unwrapped it, removing layer after layer of leaves until at length he held a photograph in his hand.
It was as they had feared.  The cabin was deserted.  The men turned and looked at one another.  A great bitterness rose in his heart.  He would go away, far into the jungle and join his tribe.
At his side was the hunting knife of his unknown sire, and across his shoulders the coils of his own long rope.  In an hour he struck the trail again, and coming to earth examined the soil minutely.  So his quarry had already passed on his return along the trail.  Tarzan swung himself to the trees once more, and with swift noiselessness sped along high above the trail.  He had covered barely a mile when he came upon the black warrior standing in a little open space.
He must belong to the tribes which attacked us, or to  Jane blanched.  that he will prove that you are wrong.  You do not know him as I do.  that any of us need worry about our carrion-eating acquaintance.  He is only  The girl did not answer, but she felt her heart shrivel within her.
The first object they encountered was the dripping fangs of the hungry lioness.  Quickly she snatched it from its hiding-place, and, leveling it full at the lioness's face, pulled the trigger.  There was a flash of flame, the roar of the discharge, and an answering roar of pain and anger from the beast.  But Sabor was not killed.  The bullet had but inflicted a painful wound in one of the great shoulders.
now D'Arnot has made matters worse by teaching me to speak French instead of English.  As they drove along, he said:    would possibly be married by now.  That a man named Canler had come up      She buried her face in her hands.  He was silent for a moment.  Finally they passed the danger point, and Tarzan reduced their speed.
After examining D'Arnot's wounds the man left the shelter and disappeared.  In half an hour he was back with fruit and a hollow gourd-like vegetable filled with water.  D'Arnot drank and ate a little.  He was surprised that he had no fever.  Again he tried to converse with his strange nurse, but the attempt was useless.
His rope he now held coiled in his right hand; he was almost ready for the kill.  Tarzan was directly over Kulonga, as he made the discovery.  The forest ended abruptly and beyond lay two hundred yards of planted fields between the jungle and the village.  So quickly did Tarzan of the Apes drag back his prey that Kulonga's cry of alarm was throttled in his windpipe.  Tarzan examined the black minutely, for he had never seen any other human being.
The locket had belonged to Lord Greystoke, and the likenesses were of himself and Lady Alice.  This wild creature had simply found it in the cabin by the beach.  How stupid of her not to have thought of that solution before.  At length Tarzan looked up to watch the girl as she examined the locket.  She noticed that he was watching her and thinking that he wished his ornament again she held it out to him.
The Frenchman looked about him.  And far to the east Tarzan of the Apes was speeding through the middle terrace back to his tribe.  Never had he traveled with such reckless speed.  But no matter how fast he went he found them always with him.  kind to die in the jungle if it suited your whim to go elsewhere.
Here, safe from interruption, the tribe often gathered.  Before the drum sat three old females, each armed with a knotted branch fifteen or eighteen inches in length.  Another male then sprang into the arena, and, repeating the horrid cries of his king, followed stealthily in his wake.  It was the challenge and the hunt.  When all the adult males had joined in the thin line of circling dancers the attack commenced.
He was indeed an officer and a gentleman--a title conferred on many, but deserved by so few.  It was quite late when they reached the cabin by the beach.  By the cabin door stood Jane.  answered, his face drawn with fatigue and the sorrow he felt for poor D'Arnot and he emphasized the word before.  The girl's head went high.
No longer the tail lashed--quiet and straight behind her it lay.  An instant she paused thus, as though turned to stone, and then, with an awful scream, she sprang.  Sabor, the lioness, was a wise hunter.  Her wild scream was not a warning.  So far as the ape was concerned, Sabor reasoned correctly.
The men argued angrily for a moment.  Then the rat-faced one, with several companions, ascended the low bluff on which stood the tree that concealed Tarzan.  They looked about for several minutes.  beneath Tarzan's tree.  us with the treasure aboard it will all be confiscated anyway.
He tried to scramble up the side of the cabin, and succeeded in catching a fleeting hold upon the thatched roof.  Philander, preceding it, was precipitated upon his back.  At the instant he fell a remarkable item of natural history leaped to his mind.  If one feigns death lions and lionesses are supposed to ignore one, according to Mr.  Philander's faulty memory.
A cry went up within the palisade.  A great throng of women and children rushed out to meet the party.  They fell upon D'Arnot tooth and nail, beating him with sticks and stones and tearing at him with claw-like hands.  Every vestige of clothing was torn from him, and the merciless blows fell upon his bare and quivering flesh.  But not once did the Frenchman cry out in pain.
It was but two o'clock when the head of the column halted upon the edge of the clearing.  For half an hour the men with Lieutenant Charpentier crouched in the dense foliage of the jungle, waiting the signal.  To them it seemed like hours.  They could see natives in the fields, and others moving in and out of the village gate.  The natives in the field dropped their implements and broke madly for the palisade.
It had become evident to Tarzan that without money one must die.  It was a happy morning for them both when the little vessel weighed anchor and made for the open sea.  Not the least interesting to Tarzan was the part played by finger prints in this fascinating science.  The man left the room, but presently returned with a little hardwood box which he placed on his superior's desk.  just the same position upon this card, here, no--a little to the right.
Here Tarzan released them, and, pointing toward the little building, vanished into the jungle beside them.  Pray allow yourself to be guided by a more mature and practical mind hereafter when in need of  Mr.  Philander was too much relieved at the happy outcome to their adventure to take umbrage at the professor's cruel fling.  Instead he grasped his friend's arm and hastened him forward in the direction of the cabin.  It was a much-relieved party of castaways that found itself once more united.
Surely the men were stupid and ridiculous and cowardly.  Even Manu, the monkey, was more intelligent than they.  If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted.  But the girl, ah--that was a different matter.  He did not reason here.
The face above her was one of extraordinary beauty.  A perfect type of the strongly masculine, unmarred by dissipation, or brutal or degrading passions.  When Tarzan killed he more often smiled than scowled, and smiles are the foundation of beauty.  As she lay more quietly in his arms Tarzan slightly relaxed his grip upon her.  As Tarzan moved steadily onward his mind was occupied with many strange and new thoughts.
Philander eyed Tarzan narrowly.  may clear up a mystery.  It can do no worse, at any rate, than to leave it still a mystery.  Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her, as had the stalwart forest god.  Did she love him?  She did not know--now.
Why, then, this hesitancy! Once more he essayed the effort, but a qualm of nausea overwhelmed him.  He did not understand.  Quickly he lowered Kulonga's body to the ground, removed the noose, and took to the trees again.  From a lofty perch Tarzan viewed the village of thatched huts across the intervening plantation.  Tarzan of the Apes was no sentimentalist.
High hills shut it off on three sides, the ocean on the fourth.  It was alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes.  Its untouched mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the human beasts beyond its frontier.  At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung, in single file, over the brow of a low hill.  Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and on each breast three concentric circles.
Suddenly Kerchak's finger closed upon the trigger.  Another thing she did, and which made traveling an onerous trial for her.  She had seen one child fall from her back to a terrible death, and she would take no further chances with this.  Why, it could not even find food alone, and more than twelve moons had passed since Kala had come upon it.  carry him and protect him.
So the scream of Sabor, the lioness, galvanized the brain and muscles of little Tarzan into instant action.  Tarzan had always hated water except as a medium for quenching his thirst.  Tarzan now swam to shore and clambered quickly upon dry land.  Tublat, her mate, always hated Tarzan, and on several occasions had come near ending his youthful career.  What Tarzan did they tried to do also, but he alone originated and became proficient.
In his leisure Clayton read, often aloud to his wife, from the store of books he had brought for their new home.  This book he kept locked in a little metal box.  A year from the day her little son was born Lady Alice passed quietly away in the night.  So peaceful was her end that it was hours before Clayton could awake to a realization that his wife was dead.  With low moans, she sat cuddling the body to her; nor did Kerchak attempt to molest her.
Closer and closer they came, until one of them was directly behind the captain.  In another moment he would have passed by and this strange narrative would never have been recorded.  For an instant the scene was ludicrous; but only for an instant.  The man was small and rather old, so that the brutality of the act was thus accentuated.  The two sailors picked themselves up, the older man assisting his wounded comrade to rise.
The man had been hard hit--D'Arnot realized it now--but why?  He could not understand.  The Frenchman looked about him.  And far to the east Tarzan of the Apes was speeding through the middle terrace back to his tribe.  Never had he traveled with such reckless speed.  But no matter how fast he went he found them always with him.
It was a sad and hungry party that lay through the long night praying for dawn.  A cry went up within the palisade.  A great throng of women and children rushed out to meet the party.  They fell upon D'Arnot tooth and nail, beating him with sticks and stones and tearing at him with claw-like hands.  Every vestige of clothing was torn from him, and the merciless blows fell upon his bare and quivering flesh.
Not the least interesting to Tarzan was the part played by finger prints in this fascinating science.  The man left the room, but presently returned with a little hardwood box which he placed on his superior's desk.  just the same position upon this card, here, no--a little to the right.  We must leave room for the thumb and the fingers of the left hand.  Tarzan complied readily, asking many questions of the officer during the operation.
The bullet had done its work.  Her first words filled Clayton with vague apprehension.  Long since had he given up any hope of rescue, except through accident.  With unremitting zeal he had worked to beautify the interior of the cabin.  Skins of lion and panther covered the floor.
Then Clayton stooped and picked it up.  It was a bit of grimy, white paper roughly folded into a ragged square.  Opening it they found a crude message printed almost illegibly, and with many evidences of an unaccustomed task.  The sight which met his eyes confirmed his worst fears.  Facing the little knot of officers was the entire motley crew of the Fuwalda, and at their head stood Black Michael.
At last he saw it, not twenty feet away--the long, lithe, muscular body and tawny head of a huge black-maned lion.  The beast was upon its belly, moving forward very slowly.  As its eyes met Clayton's it stopped, and deliberately, cautiously gathered its hind quarters behind it.  In agony the man watched, fearful to launch his spear, powerless to fly.  He heard a noise in the tree above him.
But the most wonderful sight of all, to him, was the face of the beautiful white girl.  Here at last was one of his own kind; of that he was positive.  And the young man and the two old men; they, too, were much as he had pictured his own people to be.  But doubtless they were as ferocious and cruel as other men he had seen.  The fact that they alone of all the party were unarmed might account for the fact that they had killed no one.
Both turned toward him.  or lesser extent upon the absolute correctness of this comparison.  I therefore ask that you leave the entire matter in my hands until Monsieur Desquerc, our expert returns.  A moment later the passenger was entering the library of the old home.  Professor Archimedes Q.
For a week they did little but rest, D'Arnot coaching Tarzan in French.  At the end of that time the two men could converse quite easily.  One night, as they were sitting within the cabin before retiring, Tarzan turned to D'Arnot.  D'Arnot pointed toward the northwest.  D'Arnot shook his head.
They were very happy, and they were all alone.  Tarzan took the envelope and tore it open.  The message was from D'Arnot.  It read:   Fingerprints prove you Greystoke.  As Tarzan finished reading, Clayton entered and came toward him with extended hand.
But the girl, ah--that was a different matter.  He did not reason here.  He knew that she was created to be protected, and that he was created to protect her.  He wondered why they had dug a great hole in the ground merely to bury dry bones.  Surely there was no sense in that; no one wanted to steal dry bones.
Tarzan waited no longer, but leaping into the branches of the trees sped rapidly through the forest.  At his side was the hunting knife of his unknown sire, and across his shoulders the coils of his own long rope.  In an hour he struck the trail again, and coming to earth examined the soil minutely.  So his quarry had already passed on his return along the trail.  Tarzan swung himself to the trees once more, and with swift noiselessness sped along high above the trail.
Now, in every fiber of his being, heredity spoke louder than training.  So Tarzan of the Apes did the only thing he knew to assure Jane of her safety.  He removed his hunting knife from its sheath and handed it to her hilt first, again motioning her into the bower.  And thus the rising sun found them in the morning.  Slowly the circumstances of her position crept one by one into her mind.
And then Tarzan of the Apes did just what his first ancestor would have done.  He took his woman in his arms and carried her into the jungle.  Early the following morning the four within the little cabin by the beach were awakened by the booming of a cannon.  Clayton was the first to rush out, and there, beyond the harbor's mouth, he saw two vessels lying at anchor.  One was the Arrow and the other a small French cruiser.
As for the big black woman, she was evidently connected in some way to the girl, and so he liked her, also.  For the sailors, and especially Snipes, he had developed a great hatred.  The ape-man, hiding safe behind a screen of foliage, sat watching this new specimen of his own race intently.  At intervals Clayton called aloud and finally it came to Tarzan that he was searching for the old man.  It was Sheeta, the leopard.
Kala did not wait to see more, but, turning, moved rapidly back along the trail.  She did not run; but, after the manner of her kind when not aroused, sought rather to avoid than to escape.  Close after her came Kulonga.  He could make a killing and feast well this day.  On he hurried, his spear poised for the throw.
The brilliant stones gleamed strangely against his smooth, brown hide.  It was the diary of John Clayton, Lord Greystoke--kept in French, as had always been his custom.  Early the following morning he set out, and, traveling rapidly, he came before midday to the clearing.  The day wore on, and still Tarzan of the Apes crouched above the unsuspecting woman at the cauldron.  Presently the workers in the fields returned.
In the brilliant moonlight Tarzan witnessed the whole mad carnival of rage.  He saw the females and the young scamper to the safety of the trees.  Now she was beneath the overhanging limbs and close above her crouched Tarzan, waiting the outcome of the race.  But his fangs never closed in that nut brown flesh.  Like lightning the blows fell, and only ceased when Tarzan felt the limp form crumple beneath him.
On the fifth day following the murder of the ship's officers, land was sighted by the lookout.  that time we'll have been able to make an inhabited coast somewhere and scatter a bit.  Then I'll see that yer gover'ment's notified where you be an' they'll soon send a man-o'war to fetch ye off.  In about an hour they returned and reported deep water through the passage as well as far into the little basin.  Before dark the barkentine lay peacefully at anchor upon the bosom of the still, mirror-like surface of the harbor.
Do not forget that we are keeping to the  Clayton smiled and dropped his hand to his side.  Then Clayton stooped and picked it up.  It was a bit of grimy, white paper roughly folded into a ragged square.  Opening it they found a crude message printed almost illegibly, and with many evidences of an unaccustomed task.  The sight which met his eyes confirmed his worst fears.
At one end he built a fireplace of small stones from the beach.  Thus they obtained air and proper ventilation without fear of lessening the safety of their cabin.  But he knew he was facing a horrible death, and so did she.  The ape was a great bull, weighing probably three hundred pounds.  But she would not heed, and just then the ape charged, so that Clayton could say no more.
She would not admit that he could be dead.  As Jane permitted herself to harbor these thoughts, others equally unwelcome forced themselves upon her.  If he belonged to some savage tribe he had a savage wife--a dozen of them perhaps--and wild, half-caste children.  The girl shuddered, and when they told her that the cruiser would sail on the morrow she was almost glad.  And at the last minute she left a message for him, to be transmitted by Tarzan of the Apes.
They lay where they had fallen between the combatants.  The captain had emptied his revolver and was reloading as the charge was made.  Before the officers had taken a dozen backward steps the men were upon them.  As he turned to descend the ladder he was surprised to see his wife standing on the steps almost at his side.  With equal heartlessness they disposed of their own dead and dying.
I don't care for any fuss or  The girl turned cold, but she held her head bravely.  She spoke scarcely above a whisper.  idea that the venture would succeed.  You are too good a businessman for that.  the Porters than with it.
At length he came to a great tree, heavy laden with thick foliage and loaded with pendant loops of giant creepers.  There were naked children running and playing in the village street.  Out in the fields he could see still other women hoeing, weeding, or gathering.  Tarzan of the Apes looked with growing wonder at these strange creatures.  He noticed that the women alone worked.
Tarzan was nowhere in sight.  He called aloud but there was no response.  The man had been hard hit--D'Arnot realized it now--but why?  He could not understand.  The Frenchman looked about him.  And far to the east Tarzan of the Apes was speeding through the middle terrace back to his tribe.
To him life was never monotonous or stale.  Quick was Sabor, the lioness, and quick were Numa and Sheeta, but Tarzan of the Apes was lightning.  With Tantor, the elephant, he made friends.  At eighteen he read fluently and understood nearly all he read in the many and varied volumes on the shelves.  High hills shut it off on three sides, the ocean on the fourth.
Then she distinctly heard the beast outside sniffing at the door, not two feet from where she crouched.  Instinctively the girl shuddered, and shrank closer to the black woman.  groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just beyond the thin wall.  A gentle scratching sound was heard on the door.  Again they stopped--beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now glued themselves.
It was awkward work and hurt his bare feet, but he persevered until he had partially uncovered the body.  This he dragged from the grave and laid to one side.  Then he continued digging until he had unearthed the chest.  This also he dragged to the side of the corpse.  Near the center of the clearing, and not far from the drum, or altar, he commenced to dig.
I want you to be sure, papa, to indicate all that you can do without until fall.  like this?  You haven't refused to marry me, but you haven't promised either.  I want to get the license tomorrow, so that we can be married quietly before you leave for Wisconsin.  I don't care for any fuss or  The girl turned cold, but she held her head bravely.  She spoke scarcely above a whisper.
Faintly, from a distance, came a low, sad moaning.  Nearer and nearer it approached, mounting louder and louder in volume.  The great trees bent in unison as though pressed earthward by a mighty hand.  Then, suddenly, the jungle giants whipped back, lashing their mighty tops in angry and deafening protest.  A vivid and blinding light flashed from the whirling, inky clouds above.
With little or no effort he succeeded, and the great bulk rolled inertly upon the turf before him--the ape was dead.  The bullet had done its work.  Her first words filled Clayton with vague apprehension.  Long since had he given up any hope of rescue, except through accident.  With unremitting zeal he had worked to beautify the interior of the cabin.
Now, in every fiber of his being, heredity spoke louder than training.  So Tarzan of the Apes did the only thing he knew to assure Jane of her safety.  He removed his hunting knife from its sheath and handed it to her hilt first, again motioning her into the bower.  And thus the rising sun found them in the morning.  Slowly the circumstances of her position crept one by one into her mind.
Tarzan drew back silently to the far wall, and his hand sought the long, keen hunting knife of his father.  The woman came quickly to the center of the hut.  There she paused for an instant feeling about with her hands for the thing she sought.  Evidently it was not in its accustomed place, for she explored ever nearer and nearer the wall where Tarzan stood.  So close was she now that the ape-man felt the animal warmth of her naked body.
Something was at the door trying to enter.  D'Arnot reached for the loaded rifle and placed it to his shoulder.  Dusk was falling, and the interior of the cabin was very dark; but the man could see the latch moving from its place.  He felt his hair rising upon his scalp.  Gently the door opened until a thin crack showed something standing just beyond.
may clear up a mystery.  It can do no worse, at any rate, than to leave it still a mystery.  Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her, as had the stalwart forest god.  Did she love him?  She did not know--now.  She glanced at Clayton out of the corner of her eye.
The dropping of the thing out of the open sky was a miracle well aimed to work upon their superstitious fears.  Tarzan did not attempt to escape.  Tarzan of the Apes went down beneath the great body of his enemy, but with gleaming knife drawn and striking home.  The forest echoed to the savage and triumphant paean.  Deftly he removed the great pelt, for he had practiced often on smaller animals.
After these came a huge Negress clothed like Solomon as to colors.  She gave him a brave and pretty smile of thanks, but no words passed between them.  In silence the party advanced toward the cabin.  The men put down their burdens, and then one caught sight of the notice which Tarzan had posted.  Thus addressed, the old man came slowly to where the sailors stood, followed by the other members of his party.
Then he sat up and felt of various portions of his anatomy.  Whereupon he arose, and, bending a scathing glance upon the still prostrate form of Mr.  Philander, he said:   Mr.  Philander lifted his other eye out of the mud and gazed in speechless rage at Professor Porter.  you were advancing a most logical argument in substantiation of your theory that camp lay directly south of us.
By accident the noose fell squarely about the running ape's neck, bringing him to a sudden and surprising halt.  Ah, here was a new game, a fine game, thought Tarzan, and immediately he attempted to repeat the trick.  And thus, by painstaking and continued practice, he learned the art of roping.  Now, indeed, was the life of Tublat a living nightmare.  In Tarzan's clever little mind many thoughts revolved, and back of these was his divine power of reason.
For myself, I always assume that a lion is ferocious,   D'Arnot smiled.  The men laughed, all but D'Arnot.  He alone knew that a savage beast had spoken its simple reason through the lips of the ape-man.  that if I do not return before daylight I shall have something to wear     and rope.  The men accompanied him to the edge of the jungle, where he left his clothes in a small storehouse.
Nor does he need to check his speed to catch these seemingly faint records of the fleeing beast.  To Tarzan they stand out boldly against all the myriad other scars and bruises and signs upon the leafy way.  Man's survival does not hinge so greatly upon the perfection of his senses.  Not so with Tarzan of the Apes.  To Jane the strange apparition of this god-like man was as wine to sick nerves.
Today there was no sign of the man about, and from where they watched they could see that the cabin door was open.  Slowly, cautiously, and noiselessly they crept through the jungle toward the little cabin.  On, on they came until Kerchak himself slunk stealthily to the very door and peered within.  Behind him were two males, and then Kala, closely straining the little dead form to her breast.  Noiselessly Kerchak entered, crouching for the charge; and then John Clayton rose with a sudden start and faced them.
Once he pressed his lips lightly upon her forehead, and she did not move, but closed her eyes and sighed.  She could not analyze her feelings, nor did she wish to attempt it.  She wondered and then she smiled.  Tarzan shook his head, and an expression of wistful and pathetic longing sobered his laughing eyes.  Tarzan had long since reached a decision as to what his future procedure should be.
It was a determined and angry company--a punitive expedition as well as one of relief.  From there on the elephant-track led straight to Mbonga's village.  It was but two o'clock when the head of the column halted upon the edge of the clearing.  For half an hour the men with Lieutenant Charpentier crouched in the dense foliage of the jungle, waiting the signal.  To them it seemed like hours.
Philander had not moved from where he had fallen; he had not dared the attempt.  brain, superinducing total mental aberration.  Then he sat up and felt of various portions of his anatomy.  Whereupon he arose, and, bending a scathing glance upon the still prostrate form of Mr.  Philander, he said:   Mr.
He was right above them when he discovered them.  One piercing scream escaped her lips as the brute hand clutched her arm.  Then she was dragged toward those awful fangs which yawned at her throat.  But ere they touched that fair skin another mood claimed the anthropoid.  The tribe had kept his women.
In the matter of food, thought Tarzan, they had no need to worry--he would provide, and he did.  The next morning Jane found her missing letter in the exact spot from which it had disappeared two nights before.  She showed the letter, or rather the last sheet with the signature, to Clayton.  Tarzan derived the greatest pleasure of his life in hunting meat for these strangers.  Tarzan had finally determined to visit the camp by daylight.
Tarzan was not particularly interested in the men, however, so he sought the other window.  How beautiful her features!  How delicate her snowy skin!  She was writing at Tarzan's own table beneath the window.  Upon a pile of grasses at the far side of the room lay the Negress asleep.  For an hour Tarzan feasted his eyes upon her while she wrote.  At length she arose, leaving her manuscript upon the table.
Esmeralda broke into uncontrollable sobbing.  Professor Porter finally broke the silence.  to-morrow, as soon as it is light, I shall take what food I can carry and continue the search until I have found Jane.  I will not return  His companions did not reply at once.  At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter's bent old shoulder.
Among the other books were a primer, some child's readers, numerous picture books, and a great dictionary.  Beneath the picture were three little bugs--  BOY.  And now he had discovered in the text upon the page that these three were repeated many times in the same sequence.  Slowly he turned the pages, scanning the pictures and the text for a repetition of the combination B-O-Y.  Then he took another pencil, but this time he had a definite object in view.
Even Kala, my mother, could never plan ahead.  Tarzan fished the little black diary from the bottom of his quiver, and handed it to his companion.  D'Arnot glanced at the title page.  At times his voice broke, and he was forced to stop reading for the pitiful hopelessness that spoke between the lines.  Then the passages were tinged with a subdued happiness that was even sadder than the rest.
Canler had asked for no security, and you know, dearie, what that will mean for me if papa cannot meet them.  Oh, how I detest that man!  We all tried to look on the bright side of things, but Mr.  Clayton--he joined us in London just for the adventure--both felt as skeptical as I.  It was SIMPLY FILLED with gold coin, and was so heavy that four men bent underneath its weight.  Oh, it was the most terrifying experience one could imagine--I cannot even write of it.
Philander was very near sighted.  Esmeralda did not bother to verify Mr.  His tone was enough.  She was within the cabin and had slammed and bolted the startled out of Mr.  He beat furiously upon the heavy portal.
With a bound Tarzan sprang into the trees and disappeared.  Jane wondered where he had gone.  Had he left her there to her fate in the lonely jungle?  She glanced nervously about.  Every sound she magnified into the stealthy creeping of a sinuous and malignant body.  She almost prayed for the cruel teeth that would give her unconsciousness and surcease from the agony of fear.
A huge black, standing directly before him, lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand.  Struggling and shrieking, his body, rolling from side to side, moved quickly toward the shadows beneath the trees.  The blacks, their eyes protruding in horror, watched spellbound.  D'Arnot was left alone.  As D'Arnot watched the spot where the body had entered the tree he heard the sounds of movement there.
The man started in surprise, but with a bound was at the side of the sleeping man.  Shaking him roughly by the shoulder, he cried:   Clayton sprang to his feet.  He did not recognize the man, but he understood the words and was upon the veranda in a bound.  In an instant Esmeralda, Professor Porter and Mr.  Philander had joined the two men.
But keep a still tongue in yer 'ead an' when ye 'ear shootin' git below an' stay there.  fellow went on with his polishing, which carried him away from where the Claytons were standing.  prompted to 'keep a still tongue in my 'ead.  I realize the danger which must follow, but  borrowing trouble.  in this good year 1888 it is the least likely of happenings.
One man went mad and leaped overboard.  Soon another opened his veins and drank his own blood.  When he died they threw him overboard also, though there were those among them who wanted to keep the corpse on board.  Hunger was changing them from human beasts to wild beasts.  On the following morning it was seen that one of the corpses had been partially devoured.
Tarzan did not repeat his warning signal, but instead rushed bodily upon the waiting Terkoz.  This it was which saved him from death beneath the iron muscles and tearing fangs of Terkoz.  His arm was passed beneath Terkoz's arm from behind and his hand and forearm encircled the back of Terkoz's neck.  It was the difference to him between life and death.  There was no more lunging about now.
The prisoners were herded into three huts where they were heavily guarded.  The next morning they set out upon the return march.  Slowly the expedition retraced its steps of the preceding day.  Ten loaded hammocks retarded its pace.  In eight of them lay the more seriously wounded, while two swung beneath the weight of the dead.
His brain told him that the chest contained something valuable, or the men would not have hidden it.  By the time Tarzan had hunted his way back to the vicinity of the cabin, feeding as he went, it was quite dark.  He had often wondered at the exact purpose of the lamps.  Tarzan was not particularly interested in the men, however, so he sought the other window.  How beautiful her features!  How delicate her snowy skin!  She was writing at Tarzan's own table beneath the window.
So, also, she had a great capacity for mother love and mother sorrow.  The young played and frolicked about among the trees and bushes.  Others, again, searched the surrounding trees for fruit, nuts, small birds, and eggs.  And all the way Kala carried her little dead baby hugged closely to her breast.  Today there was no sign of the man about, and from where they watched they could see that the cabin door was open.
Philander at his elbow, urging him to turn his steps back before the two became again the sport of some savage beast.  Tarzan waited in silence before the door of the little house until they should return.  His thoughts were of the beautiful white girl.  They were always of her now.  He wondered if she would fear him, and the thought all but caused him to relinquish his plan.
turning toward the door; but his companion was not there.  D'Arnot walked to the door and looked out.  Tarzan was nowhere in sight.  He called aloud but there was no response.  The man had been hard hit--D'Arnot realized it now--but why?  He could not understand.
And here John, Lord Greystoke, and Lady Alice, his wife, vanished from the eyes and from the knowledge of men.  The Fuwalda was no exception to the rule.  Her officers were swarthy bullies, hating and hated by their crew.  The captain, while a competent seaman, was a brute in his treatment of his men.  The men were working backwards toward the little party who were facing away from the sailors.
The officers arose and saluted as their superior approached, and Clayton surrendered his camp stool to Jane.  opportunity to harm us himself, or to lead his people against us.  grizzly--absolutely without sign of fear or hesitation--you would have believed him more than human.  skin--could you have seen them force back those awful fangs--you too would have thought him invincible.  He done save us so we all could get AWAY from here.
Clayton was the first to remember, and, turning, held out his hand.  pardon me if I do not speak to you in English.  I am just learning it,  himself.  Clayton started back in surprise.  And Professor Porter and Mr.
He wanted to get away from everything that might remind him of Jane.  As Tarzan stood upon the threshold brooding, D'Arnot had entered the cabin.  Many comforts he saw that had been left behind.  One was in a strong masculine hand and was unsealed.  The other, in a woman's hand, was sealed.
us with the treasure aboard it will all be confiscated anyway.  shrieked Snipes, with a volley of frightful oaths.  location so's we kin find it again.  You, Tom, and Bill, take a couple    The men all looked up angrily.  hand with this work?  Your shoulder's not hurt so all-fired bad as  revolver nervously.
Instinctively the girl shuddered, and shrank closer to the black woman.  groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just beyond the thin wall.  A gentle scratching sound was heard on the door.  Again they stopped--beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now glued themselves.  beyond, she saw framed in the tiny square of the latticed window the head of a huge lioness.
She spoke scarcely above a whisper.  idea that the venture would succeed.  You are too good a businessman for that.  the Porters than with it.  You knew the one best way to force me to marry you, without seeming to force me.
Esmeralda opened her eyes.  The first object they encountered was the dripping fangs of the hungry lioness.  Quickly she snatched it from its hiding-place, and, leveling it full at the lioness's face, pulled the trigger.  There was a flash of flame, the roar of the discharge, and an answering roar of pain and anger from the beast.  But Sabor was not killed.
They saw no signs of natives nor were they molested by wild beasts.  Their journey was a miracle of ease.  Tarzan asked questions and learned rapidly.  three weeks upon the march.  Why, Sabor, single handed, could exterminate a thousand  D'Arnot laughed.
The ape-man threw the warm carcass of Numa across his shoulders and took to the trees once more.  The men upon the veranda had sat for an hour, almost in silence.  as Tarzan's savage cry came faintly to their ears.  the gorilla country.  The men crowded about Tarzan with many questions, but his only answer was a laughing depreciation of his feat.
He handed the open book to the policeman.  from his desk and examined all three specimens carefully, making notations meanwhile upon a pad of paper.  Tarzan realized now what was the meaning of their visit to the police officer.  The answer to his life's riddle lay in these tiny marks.  With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair, but suddenly he relaxed and dropped back, smiling.
For half an hour the men with Lieutenant Charpentier crouched in the dense foliage of the jungle, waiting the signal.  To them it seemed like hours.  They could see natives in the fields, and others moving in and out of the village gate.  The natives in the field dropped their implements and broke madly for the palisade.  Carefully they ransacked every hut and corner of the village, but no sign of D'Arnot could they find.
Facing the little knot of officers was the entire motley crew of the Fuwalda, and at their head stood Black Michael.  Two of their number had gone down before the captain's revolver.  They lay where they had fallen between the combatants.  The captain had emptied his revolver and was reloading as the charge was made.  Before the officers had taken a dozen backward steps the men were upon them.
But love is a strange master, and human nature is still stranger, so she asked her question.  the shots in the jungle, very faint and far away, he left me.  for he did not believe it.  The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.  Clayton looked puzzled.
I thank you for what you have done for me.  You have saved my life, and all that I have is yours.  With a human being I have never spoken, except once with Jane Porter, by signs.  This is the first time I have spoken with another of my kind through written words.  D'Arnot was mystified.
grizzly--absolutely without sign of fear or hesitation--you would have believed him more than human.  skin--could you have seen them force back those awful fangs--you too would have thought him invincible.  He done save us so we all could get AWAY from here.  All were silent for a moment, and then Jane spoke.  will be glaring at him to-night, and at your comrade Lieutenant D'Arnot.
Instead she insisted that he accept, and, indeed, take her with him.  And here John, Lord Greystoke, and Lady Alice, his wife, vanished from the eyes and from the knowledge of men.  The Fuwalda was no exception to the rule.  Her officers were swarthy bullies, hating and hated by their crew.  The captain, while a competent seaman, was a brute in his treatment of his men.
Closer and closer they came, until one of them was directly behind the captain.  In another moment he would have passed by and this strange narrative would never have been recorded.  For an instant the scene was ludicrous; but only for an instant.  The man was small and rather old, so that the brutality of the act was thus accentuated.  The two sailors picked themselves up, the older man assisting his wounded comrade to rise.
They looked about for several minutes.  beneath Tarzan's tree.  us with the treasure aboard it will all be confiscated anyway.  shrieked Snipes, with a volley of frightful oaths.  location so's we kin find it again.
Today we may go out and stumble upon a lion which is over-timid--he runs away from us.  To-morrow we may meet his uncle or his twin brother, and our friends wonder why we do not return from the jungle.  For myself, I always assume that a lion is ferocious,   D'Arnot smiled.  The men laughed, all but D'Arnot.  He alone knew that a savage beast had spoken its simple reason through the lips of the ape-man.
As he had grown older, he found that he had grown away from his people.  Their interests and his were far removed.  Among the tribe he no longer had friends as of old.  Tarzan would have liked to subdue the ugly beast without recourse to knife or arrows.  Tarzan did not repeat his warning signal, but instead rushed bodily upon the waiting Terkoz.
Philander was too much relieved at the happy outcome to their adventure to take umbrage at the professor's cruel fling.  Instead he grasped his friend's arm and hastened him forward in the direction of the cabin.  It was a much-relieved party of castaways that found itself once more united.  Esmeralda was positive that it was none other than an angel of the Lord, sent down especially to watch over them.  little shudder at recollection of the awful roar which had followed the killing of the lioness.
The man was small and rather old, so that the brutality of the act was thus accentuated.  The two sailors picked themselves up, the older man assisting his wounded comrade to rise.  Though the fellow's tone was surly, his words were evidently well meant.  There was in the whole atmosphere of the craft that undefinable something which presages disaster.  John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, did not ask to be transferred to the British man-of-war.
Canler was insistent that Jane marry him at once.  At length she gave in from sheer loathing of the continued and hateful importuning.  It was agreed that on the morrow Canler was to drive to town and bring back the license and a minister.  Clayton had wanted to leave as soon as the plan was announced, but the girl's tired, hopeless look kept him.  He could not desert her.
That a man named Canler had come up      She buried her face in her hands.  He was silent for a moment.  Finally they passed the danger point, and Tarzan reduced their speed.  You are a gentleman, and gentlemen do not kill in cold  to himself.  Again they were silent for a time.
There was much more talk and gesticulating, but less quarreling.  Slipping in at the door he found that everything had been ransacked.  His books and pencils strewed the floor.  His weapons and shields and other little store of treasures were littered about.  Quickly he ran to the cupboard and searched in the far recess of the lower shelf.
A huge black, standing directly before him, lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand.  Struggling and shrieking, his body, rolling from side to side, moved quickly toward the shadows beneath the trees.  The blacks, their eyes protruding in horror, watched spellbound.  D'Arnot was left alone.  As D'Arnot watched the spot where the body had entered the tree he heard the sounds of movement there.
Did she love him?  She did not know--now.  She glanced at Clayton out of the corner of her eye.  If he should never touch her again, she reasoned, she would never feel attracted toward him.  She had not loved him, then.  It had been nothing more than a passing hallucination, super-induced by excitement and by personal contact.
If so he must speak English.  No, this could not be Tarzan of the Apes, for it was very evident that he was an utter stranger to English.  Then he left him to follow voluntarily.  Suddenly Clayton heard the faint report of a firearm--a single shot, and then silence.  And now there came the sound of a heavy body brushing against the side of the cabin.
He could not understand why.  Canler was a splendid match.  off first on one ground and then another.  I have always the feeling   relief marking his voice.  hanging about for months.
He gathered her in his arms, whispering words of courage and love into her ears.  Clayton lay facing the opening at the front, a rifle and a brace of revolvers at his hand.  Scarcely had they closed their eyes than the terrifying cry of a panther rang out from the jungle behind them.  Closer and closer it came until they could hear the great beast directly beneath them.  The task was an arduous one and required the better part of a month, though he built but one small room.
What though Kala was a fierce and hideous ape!  To Tarzan she had been kind, she had been beautiful.  It was enough, however, for his needs.  Tarzan waited no longer, but leaping into the branches of the trees sped rapidly through the forest.  At his side was the hunting knife of his unknown sire, and across his shoulders the coils of his own long rope.  In an hour he struck the trail again, and coming to earth examined the soil minutely.
The stake stood forty feet from the nearest tree.  Tarzan coiled his rope.  Then there rose suddenly above the fiendish cries of the dancing demons the awful challenge of the ape-man.  The dancers halted as though turned to stone.  The rope sped with singing whir high above the heads of the blacks.
So they did not know that he was Tarzan of the Apes.  Among these were some pencils.  Later he would return the letter to the cabin.  In the matter of food, thought Tarzan, they had no need to worry--he would provide, and he did.  The next morning Jane found her missing letter in the exact spot from which it had disappeared two nights before.
At one end he built a fireplace of small stones from the beach.  Thus they obtained air and proper ventilation without fear of lessening the safety of their cabin.  But he knew he was facing a horrible death, and so did she.  The ape was a great bull, weighing probably three hundred pounds.  But she would not heed, and just then the ape charged, so that Clayton could say no more.
where a mighty wall of roaring flames shut out the view.  A short run down the road brought her to a horrified stand, for there before her was another wall of flame.  Jane knew that it was useless again to attempt to force her way through the undergrowth.  She had tried it once, and failed.  She opened her eyes.
He glanced out of half-closed eyes at Jane, but he did not move.  The room was tense with the silence of taut nerves.  All eyes turned toward Jane, awaiting her reply.  Canler felt the hostility that emanated from each member of the party.  have promised to marry me.
Philander's faulty memory.  Philander lay as he had fallen, frozen into the horrid semblance of death.  Jane had been watching his antics in mild-eyed surprise.  Now she laughed--a little choking gurgle of a laugh; but it was enough.  Philander rolled over upon his side and peered about.
She pointed to it now, and Tarzan removed it and handed the pretty bauble to her.  She looked up at Tarzan to find him leaning toward her gazing on the miniatures with an expression of astonishment.  His manner clearly denoted that he had never before seen them, nor imagined that the locket opened.  Tarzan was still gazing with fixity at the two faces.  Carefully he unwrapped it, removing layer after layer of leaves until at length he held a photograph in his hand.
Again they were silent for a time.  She did not reply at once, but he waited patiently.  The girl was trying to collect her thoughts.  I see now  There was just the faintest tinge of bitterness in his voice.  But before she could go on a sudden turn in the road brought them into the midst of a little hamlet.
I shall leave the decision to you, for you know best  good man.  I could never face you nor any other honest person if I repudiated my promise to Mr.  In the center of the greensward a young woman sat upon a little mound of earth, and beside her sat a young giant.  They ate pleasant fruit and looked into each other's eyes and smiled.  They were very happy, and they were all alone.
They sat beneath the shade of a great tree, and Tarzan found some smooth bark that they might converse.  Tarzan was as anxious to go as D'Arnot, for he longed to see Jane again.  he used so often glide from Tarzan's tongue.  So they set out, D'Arnot marveling as had Clayton and Jane at the wondrous strength and agility of the apeman.  An atmosphere of loneliness pervaded the spot, which caught suddenly at both men as they strode toward the cabin.
But you are deep, Mr.  I know you better than you think I know you.  Of course you are right.  I am buying you, and I knew that you knew it, but I thought you would prefer to pretend that it was otherwise.  At their destination they were met by Clayton and Mr.
Again she glanced at Clayton.  He was very handsome and every inch a gentleman.  She should be very proud of such a husband.  That evening in the little waiting room at the station Tarzan caught Jane alone for a moment.  Turning her head she buried her face in her arms.
And he realized all this without malice or hatred.  To kill was the law of the wild world he knew.  His strange life had left him neither morose nor bloodthirsty.  That he joyed in killing, and that he killed with a joyous laugh upon his handsome lips betokened no innate cruelty.  At length he came to a great tree, heavy laden with thick foliage and loaded with pendant loops of giant creepers.
Then there came to Terkoz's rescue the same thing that had put him in these sore straits--a man's reasoning power.  the jungle there is none so great.  no more with your king or your people, for next time I shall kill you.  But deep in the minds of the apes was rooted the conviction that Tarzan was a mighty fighter and a strange creature.  Strange because he had had it in his power to kill his enemy, but had allowed him to live--unharmed.
The sharp pain and the feel of hot, trickling blood assured him of the awful reality of his hopeless position.  Another spear and then another touched him.  He closed his eyes and held his teeth firm set--he would not cry out.  He was a soldier of France, and he would teach these beasts how an officer and a gentleman died.  Tarzan of the Apes needed no interpreter to translate the story of those distant shots.
Then he sat up and felt of various portions of his anatomy.  Whereupon he arose, and, bending a scathing glance upon the still prostrate form of Mr.  Philander, he said:   Mr.  Philander lifted his other eye out of the mud and gazed in speechless rage at Professor Porter.  you were advancing a most logical argument in substantiation of your theory that camp lay directly south of us.
The man had been hard hit--D'Arnot realized it now--but why?  He could not understand.  The Frenchman looked about him.  And far to the east Tarzan of the Apes was speeding through the middle terrace back to his tribe.  Never had he traveled with such reckless speed.  But no matter how fast he went he found them always with him.
She opened her eyes.  Far below her lay the undergrowth and the hard earth.  About her was the waving foliage of the forest.  It was he!   almost fiercely.  They had come to a point beyond the fire now, and he had turned back to the clearing.
Never had he traveled with such reckless speed.  But no matter how fast he went he found them always with him.  kind to die in the jungle if it suited your whim to go elsewhere.  run away from one of your own people, because one of them has run away   D'Arnot closed the cabin door.  He was very nervous.
Tarzan had long since reached a decision as to what his future procedure should be.  He had had time to recollect all that he had read of the ways of men and women in the books at the cabin.  He would act as he imagined the men in the books would have acted were they in his place.  Then he went back again into the jungle and in a few minutes reappeared with a quantity of soft grasses and ferns.  Two more trips he made until he had quite a pile of material at hand.
With a bound Tarzan sprang into the trees and disappeared.  Jane wondered where he had gone.  Had he left her there to her fate in the lonely jungle?  She glanced nervously about.  Every sound she magnified into the stealthy creeping of a sinuous and malignant body.  She almost prayed for the cruel teeth that would give her unconsciousness and surcease from the agony of fear.
Without a pause he rushed into the house.  On the couch lay Clayton.  The man started in surprise, but with a bound was at the side of the sleeping man.  Shaking him roughly by the shoulder, he cried:   Clayton sprang to his feet.  He did not recognize the man, but he understood the words and was upon the veranda in a bound.
Tarzan examined the black minutely, for he had never seen any other human being.  The knife with its sheath and belt caught his eye; he appropriated them.  A copper anklet also took his fancy, and this he transferred to his own leg.  He examined and admired the tattooing on the forehead and breast.  He marveled at the sharp filed teeth.
In about an hour they returned and reported deep water through the passage as well as far into the little basin.  Before dark the barkentine lay peacefully at anchor upon the bosom of the still, mirror-like surface of the harbor.  But no pleas, or threats, or promises of reward could move him.  Ye saved my life once, and in return I'm goin' to spare yours, but that's all I can do.  quick they may even change their minds about giving ye that much show.
He breathed a silent prayer that he be quickly delivered from his torture.  But the death he prayed for was not to be so easily had.  Soon the warriors beat the women away from their prisoner.  Presently they reached the center of the village.  There D'Arnot was bound securely to the great post from which no live man had ever been released.
Only Kerchak hung back, nursing his hatred and his rage.  Suddenly something snapped in the wicked little brain of the anthropoid.  With a frightful roar the great beast sprang among the assemblage.  the fangs of a greater!  Do mighty fighters fly to the trees at the challenge of his kind.  Quietly Tarzan dropped to the ground.
The blacks, their eyes protruding in horror, watched spellbound.  D'Arnot was left alone.  As D'Arnot watched the spot where the body had entered the tree he heard the sounds of movement there.  Immediately after him came a white body, but this one alighted erect.  D'Arnot saw a clean-limbed young giant emerge from the shadows into the firelight and come quickly toward him.
An hour later he started up listening.  Something was at the door trying to enter.  D'Arnot reached for the loaded rifle and placed it to his shoulder.  Dusk was falling, and the interior of the cabin was very dark; but the man could see the latch moving from its place.  He felt his hair rising upon his scalp.
There is another I should like to thank also, but he did not come back, though I cannot believe that he is dead.  I do not know his name.  He is the great white giant who wore the diamond locket upon his breast.  I found a note you wrote me lying among the leaves beneath a tree near the cabin.  But know that I am always your friend, JANE PORTER.
Philander's faulty memory.  Philander lay as he had fallen, frozen into the horrid semblance of death.  Jane had been watching his antics in mild-eyed surprise.  Now she laughed--a little choking gurgle of a laugh; but it was enough.  Philander rolled over upon his side and peered about.
Out shot the arm, and the spear sped toward Kala.  It but grazed her side.  With a cry of rage and pain the she-ape turned upon her tormentor.  As she charged, Kulonga unslung his bow and fitted an arrow with almost unthinkable quickness.  Drawing the shaft far back he drove the poisoned missile straight into the heart of the great anthropoid.
And then the cruiser had come.  The face above her was one of extraordinary beauty.  A perfect type of the strongly masculine, unmarred by dissipation, or brutal or degrading passions.  When Tarzan killed he more often smiled than scowled, and smiles are the foundation of beauty.  As she lay more quietly in his arms Tarzan slightly relaxed his grip upon her.
yet not kill them here.  Presently one of the blacks looked up, and beholding Tarzan, turned, shrieking, toward the palisade.  The latter eyed them in puzzled bewilderment.  The man had lowered his rifle and now advanced with outstretched hand.  And thus came Tarzan of the Apes to the first outpost of civilization.
I am afraid that  D'Arnot shook his head.  A week later the two men came suddenly upon a clearing in the forest.  In the distance were several buildings surrounded by a strong palisade.  Between them and the enclosure stretched a cultivated field in which a number of negroes were working.  The two halted at the edge of the jungle.
By the cabin door stood Jane.  answered, his face drawn with fatigue and the sorrow he felt for poor D'Arnot and he emphasized the word before.  The girl's head went high.  Then he wrote upon a piece of paper and shoved it beneath the partition.  MY DEAR MISS PORTER:  I had no reason to insinuate what I did.
He was indeed an officer and a gentleman--a title conferred on many, but deserved by so few.  It was quite late when they reached the cabin by the beach.  By the cabin door stood Jane.  answered, his face drawn with fatigue and the sorrow he felt for poor D'Arnot and he emphasized the word before.  The girl's head went high.
only grieve that I could not have died for him, or at least with him.  I wish that you could have known him better, Monsieur.  He was indeed an officer and a gentleman--a title conferred on many, but deserved by so few.  It was quite late when they reached the cabin by the beach.  By the cabin door stood Jane.
His heart was filled with happiness.  The woman he loved was safe.  He wondered by what manner of miracle she had been spared.  To see her alive seemed almost unbelievable.  As he approached the cabin he saw Jane coming out.
Her head was high in ever alert attention; her long tail moved slowly in sinuous and graceful undulations.  Like a thing of bronze, motionless as death, sat Tarzan.  Sabor passed beneath.  One stride beyond she took--a second, a third, and then the silent coil shot out above her.  He had learned from experience.
fellow went on with his polishing, which carried him away from where the Claytons were standing.  prompted to 'keep a still tongue in my 'ead.  I realize the danger which must follow, but  borrowing trouble.  in this good year 1888 it is the least likely of happenings.  I don't care whether you are an English lord or not.
Early the next morning Canler set out for town.  About noon Jane started off for a walk.  She would not let Clayton accompany her.  She wanted to be alone, she said, and he respected her wishes.  In the house Professor Porter and Mr.
From the cabin came Mr.  Philander and Esmeralda.  From where Tarzan and the girl stood they could not see the two vessels lying at anchor in the harbor.  Tarzan pointed toward the sounds, touched his breast and pointed again.  He was going, and something told her that it was because he thought her people were in danger.
Suddenly Kerchak's finger closed upon the trigger.  Another thing she did, and which made traveling an onerous trial for her.  She had seen one child fall from her back to a terrible death, and she would take no further chances with this.  Why, it could not even find food alone, and more than twelve moons had passed since Kala had come upon it.  carry him and protect him.
The room was tense with the silence of taut nerves.  All eyes turned toward Jane, awaiting her reply.  Canler felt the hostility that emanated from each member of the party.  have promised to marry me.  I shall be played with no longer.
For a moment he stood motionless, his quick, bright eyes scanning the interior of the palisade.  No one was in sight.  His eyes rested upon the open doorway of a nearby hut.  He would take a look within, thought Tarzan, and so, cautiously, he approached the low thatched building.  For a moment he stood without, listening intently.
He saw that these people were more wicked than his own apes, and as savage and cruel as Sabor, herself.  Tarzan began to hold his own kind in low esteem.  In a larger circle squatted the women, yelling and beating upon drums.  It reminded Tarzan of the Dum-Dum, and so he knew what to expect.  He wondered if they would spring upon their meat while it was still alive.
Several human skulls lay upon the floor.  Tarzan of the Apes felt of each article, hefted the spears, smelled of nostrils.  As he took each article from the walls, he placed it in a pile in the center of the room.  Then he stood back, surveyed his work, and grinned.  Tarzan of the Apes enjoyed a joke.
I do not know his name.  He is the great white giant who wore the diamond locket upon his breast.  I found a note you wrote me lying among the leaves beneath a tree near the cabin.  But know that I am always your friend, JANE PORTER.  Tarzan sat with gaze fixed upon the floor for nearly an hour.
She did not see Clayton again that day.  The next morning Clayton left early with the relief expedition in search of Lieutenant D'Arnot.  There were two hundred armed men this time, with ten officers and two surgeons, and provisions for a week.  They carried bedding and hammocks, the latter for transporting their sick and wounded.  It was a determined and angry company--a punitive expedition as well as one of relief.
On the following morning it was seen that one of the corpses had been partially devoured.  And then the cruiser had come.  The face above her was one of extraordinary beauty.  A perfect type of the strongly masculine, unmarred by dissipation, or brutal or degrading passions.  When Tarzan killed he more often smiled than scowled, and smiles are the foundation of beauty.
How he should like to have more of those little death-dealing slivers.  As he was trying to think out some plan to distract her attention he heard a wild cry from across the clearing.  The fellow was shouting and waving his spear above his head.  Now and again he would point to something on the ground before him.  The village was in an uproar instantly.
But things were commencing to happen below him.  Then Kulonga sprang into a near-by tree.  Horta wheeled to charge his enemy once more; a dozen steps he took, then he staggered and fell upon his side.  For a moment his muscles stiffened and relaxed convulsively, then he lay still.  Kulonga came down from his tree.
D'Arnot reached for the loaded rifle and placed it to his shoulder.  Dusk was falling, and the interior of the cabin was very dark; but the man could see the latch moving from its place.  He felt his hair rising upon his scalp.  Gently the door opened until a thin crack showed something standing just beyond.  D'Arnot sighted along the blue barrel at the crack of the door--and then he pulled the trigger.
Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs.  His enormous shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles.  And thus came the young Lord Greystoke into the kingship of the Apes.  Most of them, therefore, were more than content with the change in rulers.  During this period Tarzan paid many nocturnal visits to the village, where he often renewed his supply of arrows.
Armed men rushed from the interior of many a hut and raced madly across the clearing toward the excited sentry.  After them trooped the old men, and the women and children until, in a moment, the village was deserted.  Quickly and noiselessly he dropped to the ground beside the cauldron of poison.  For a moment he stood motionless, his quick, bright eyes scanning the interior of the palisade.  No one was in sight.
None of the living was conscious when the Frenchmen reached the Arrow's deck.  When restoratives had been applied several of the men regained consciousness, and then the whole story was told.  Their water was gone, and in another day they would be without food.  Conditions changed rapidly from bad to worse.  One man went mad and leaped overboard.
There is only one way to keep him in safety, and that is to chain him to a tree.  The poor dear is SO    this cabin while I am searching for your father and Mr.  Jane did as he suggested and when he saw the door close safely behind them Clayton turned toward the jungle.  Every few moments he called aloud the names of the wanderers.  When Professor Archimedes Q.
As he turned to descend the ladder he was surprised to see his wife standing on the steps almost at his side.  With equal heartlessness they disposed of their own dead and dying.  Presently one of the crew spied the approaching Claytons, and with a uplifted ax.  But Black Michael was a fit leader for this band of cutthroats, and, withal held them in fair subjection to his rule.  On the fifth day following the murder of the ship's officers, land was sighted by the lookout.
Something was at the door trying to enter.  D'Arnot reached for the loaded rifle and placed it to his shoulder.  Dusk was falling, and the interior of the cabin was very dark; but the man could see the latch moving from its place.  He felt his hair rising upon his scalp.  Gently the door opened until a thin crack showed something standing just beyond.
Greystoke never turned a hair, but stood eying the excited man with level gaze.  The fellow proved most ungrateful.  Fairly jumped at me like a mad dog.  are safely off the thing I shall spend my energies in looking after our own welfare.  And I rather fancy the first step to that end should be to go to our cabin and look over my revolvers.
Wisconsin which her mother left her.  made a living from it, and been able to send Jane a trifle beside, each year.  She is planning on our going up there the first of the week.  Canler was about to reply, when the sound of footsteps came from the hall without, and Jane entered the room.  college tomorrow to pack his books.
for he did not believe it.  The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.  Clayton looked puzzled.  know nothing of him.  He must belong to the tribes which attacked us, or to  Jane blanched.
Tarzan knew what the result would be.  In an instant the neck would break.  Then there came to Terkoz's rescue the same thing that had put him in these sore straits--a man's reasoning power.  the jungle there is none so great.  no more with your king or your people, for next time I shall kill you.
Then she distinctly heard the beast outside sniffing at the door, not two feet from where she crouched.  Instinctively the girl shuddered, and shrank closer to the black woman.  groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just beyond the thin wall.  A gentle scratching sound was heard on the door.  Again they stopped--beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now glued themselves.
Do not forget that we are keeping to the  Clayton smiled and dropped his hand to his side.  Then Clayton stooped and picked it up.  It was a bit of grimy, white paper roughly folded into a ragged square.  Opening it they found a crude message printed almost illegibly, and with many evidences of an unaccustomed task.  The sight which met his eyes confirmed his worst fears.
It was the signal for fifty others.  The women and children shrieked their delight.  Then it was that Tarzan of the Apes saw his chance.  All eyes were fixed upon the thrilling spectacle at the stake.  Gently the lithe boy dropped to the soft earth at the end of the village street.
And thus came Tarzan of the Apes to the first outpost of civilization.  of both whites and blacks because of several occurrences which to Tarzan seemed the merest of nothings.  Shouting in alarm, the four took to their heels, and then the black spied Tarzan.  Tarzan met the rush with the fighting smile that the joy of battle always brought to his lips.  there is among ourselves.
hanging about for months.  Wisconsin which her mother left her.  made a living from it, and been able to send Jane a trifle beside, each year.  She is planning on our going up there the first of the week.  Canler was about to reply, when the sound of footsteps came from the hall without, and Jane entered the room.
Carefully he unwrapped it, removing layer after layer of leaves until at length he held a photograph in his hand.  Tarzan was looking at her with an expression of puzzled bewilderment in his eyes as she glanced up at him.  He seemed to be framing a question with his lips.  At length a simple explanation occurred to her.  The locket had belonged to Lord Greystoke, and the likenesses were of himself and Lady Alice.
But into the mind of Tarzan a great plan sprang.  He would be a mighty hunter, also.  On this day, however, he presently had other and more immediate interests to attract his attention.  All nature waited--but not for long.  Faintly, from a distance, came a low, sad moaning.
Also, he was anxious to return to the cabin and continue his investigations of its wondrous contents.  So, early one morning, he set forth alone upon his quest.  He had in mind that no more would he run from the wanton attacks of old Tublat.  In another moment he was at the cabin, and after a short time had again thrown the latch and entered.  Among the other books were a primer, some child's readers, numerous picture books, and a great dictionary.
One stride beyond she took--a second, a third, and then the silent coil shot out above her.  He had learned from experience.  Tarzan had fastened the end of the rope securely to the trunk of the great tree on which he sat.  The lioness was now back in the path where she could see the author of the indignity which had been placed upon her.  Instead he perched lightly upon a smaller branch twenty feet above the raging captive.
Those who were killed he could not aid, those who escaped would not need his assistance.  It was to those who had neither been killed or escaped that he hastened.  And he knew that he would find them by the great post in the center of Mbonga village.  He knew, too, that they seldom lost much time before consummating the fiendish purpose of their captures.  He doubted that he would arrive in time to do more than avenge.
clutching frantically at Mr.  Philander to regain the balance which the sudden fright had so perilously endangered.  Unfortunately for them both, Mr.  At length Professor Porter made an attempt to move one leg.  To his surprise, it responded to his will as in days gone by.
With back-laid ears she looked straight into the eyes of Tarzan of the Apes and sounded her fierce, shrill challenge.  And from the safety of his overhanging limb the ape-child sent back the fearsome answer of his kind.  But into the mind of Tarzan a great plan sprang.  He would be a mighty hunter, also.  On this day, however, he presently had other and more immediate interests to attract his attention.
Philander's faulty memory.  Philander lay as he had fallen, frozen into the horrid semblance of death.  Jane had been watching his antics in mild-eyed surprise.  Now she laughed--a little choking gurgle of a laugh; but it was enough.  Philander rolled over upon his side and peered about.
He came close to her once more and took hold of her arm.  She turned upon him like a tigress, striking his great breast with her tiny hands.  Tarzan could not understand it.  Since then Tarzan of the Apes had felt a warm, lithe form close pressed to his.  Again he laid his hand upon her arm.
He had taken but a step, however, ere his quick ear caught the sound of approaching footsteps immediately without.  In another instant the figure of a woman darkened the entrance of the hut.  Tarzan drew back silently to the far wall, and his hand sought the long, keen hunting knife of his father.  The woman came quickly to the center of the hut.  There she paused for an instant feeling about with her hands for the thing she sought.
So far as the ape was concerned, Sabor reasoned correctly.  The little fellow crouched trembling just an instant, but that instant was quite long enough to prove his undoing.  Not so, however, with Tarzan, the man-child.  So the scream of Sabor, the lioness, galvanized the brain and muscles of little Tarzan into instant action.  Tarzan had always hated water except as a medium for quenching his thirst.
As he took each article from the walls, he placed it in a pile in the center of the room.  Then he stood back, surveyed his work, and grinned.  Tarzan of the Apes enjoyed a joke.  But now he heard, outside, the sounds of many voices, and long mournful howls, and mighty wailing.  Had he remained too long? Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street toward the village gate.
The man left the room, but presently returned with a little hardwood box which he placed on his superior's desk.  just the same position upon this card, here, no--a little to the right.  We must leave room for the thumb and the fingers of the left hand.  Tarzan complied readily, asking many questions of the officer during the operation.  I should hate to trust its findings further than to differentiate between individuals.
A further glance revealed a second skeleton upon the bed.  there was no panic in her fright.  Then they sat down upon a bench with their arms about one another, and waited.  So much had Tarzan seen that day that his head was in a whirl of wonder.  But the most wonderful sight of all, to him, was the face of the beautiful white girl.
That he joyed in killing, and that he killed with a joyous laugh upon his handsome lips betokened no innate cruelty.  At length he came to a great tree, heavy laden with thick foliage and loaded with pendant loops of giant creepers.  There were naked children running and playing in the village street.  Out in the fields he could see still other women hoeing, weeding, or gathering.  Tarzan of the Apes looked with growing wonder at these strange creatures.
With a cry of rage and pain the she-ape turned upon her tormentor.  As she charged, Kulonga unslung his bow and fitted an arrow with almost unthinkable quickness.  Drawing the shaft far back he drove the poisoned missile straight into the heart of the great anthropoid.  With a horrid scream Kala plunged forward upon her face before the astonished members of her tribe.  When he arrived he found the entire tribe gathered jabbering about the dead body of his slain mother.
Tarzan had fastened the end of the rope securely to the trunk of the great tree on which he sat.  The lioness was now back in the path where she could see the author of the indignity which had been placed upon her.  Instead he perched lightly upon a smaller branch twenty feet above the raging captive.  Tarzan was much hurt.  To him life was never monotonous or stale.
for he did not believe it.  The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.  Clayton looked puzzled.  know nothing of him.  He must belong to the tribes which attacked us, or to  Jane blanched.
The two sailors picked themselves up, the older man assisting his wounded comrade to rise.  Though the fellow's tone was surly, his words were evidently well meant.  There was in the whole atmosphere of the craft that undefinable something which presages disaster.  John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, did not ask to be transferred to the British man-of-war.  But keep a still tongue in yer 'ead an' when ye 'ear shootin' git below an' stay there.
It was Sheeta, the leopard.  Now, Tarzan heard the soft bending of grasses and wondered why the young white man was not warned.  Could it be he had failed to note the loud warning?  Never before had Tarzan known Sheeta to be so clumsy.  No, the white man did not hear.  Clayton came to his feet with a start.
An idea came to him.  He wondered why he had not thought of it before.  Tarzan shook his head and taking the bark, wrote:   I had thought of that--the first day; but I dared not.  The great apes come often to this spot, and if they found you here, wounded and alone, they would kill you.  D'Arnot turned on his side and closed his eyes.
Then he left him to follow voluntarily.  Suddenly Clayton heard the faint report of a firearm--a single shot, and then silence.  And now there came the sound of a heavy body brushing against the side of the cabin.  She could hear the great padded paws upon the ground outside.  For an instant, all was silence; even the bedlam of the forest died to a faint murmur.
She would not let Clayton accompany her.  She wanted to be alone, she said, and he respected her wishes.  In the house Professor Porter and Mr.  Philander were immersed in an absorbing discussion of some weighty scientific problem.  On and on they came.
He could neither see nor hear any signs of life about him.  At length he fell into a quiet slumber, nor did he awake again until afternoon.  The Frenchman called faintly.  The man turned, and rising, came toward the shelter.  His face was very handsome--the handsomest, thought D'Arnot, that he had ever seen.
And here John, Lord Greystoke, and Lady Alice, his wife, vanished from the eyes and from the knowledge of men.  The Fuwalda was no exception to the rule.  Her officers were swarthy bullies, hating and hated by their crew.  The captain, while a competent seaman, was a brute in his treatment of his men.  The men were working backwards toward the little party who were facing away from the sailors.
If you go, I shall go     It took a long time to make him understand even imperfectly.  need you work for it.  I have enough money for two--enough for twenty.  Each man carrying a rifle and ammunition, beside bedding and some food and cooking utensils.  The latter seemed to Tarzan a most useless encumbrance, so he threw his away.
For what seemed an eternity the great brute stood with its forepaws upon the sill, glaring into the little room.  Presently it tried the strength of the lattice with its great talons.  At her feet lay the prostrate form of the Negress.  Jane stooped to grasp the black woman by the shoulder.  Roughly she shook her.
Surely there was no sense in that; no one wanted to steal dry bones.  Instantly her tears ceased.  And, sure enough, the Arrow was being worked toward the open sea, slowly, through the harbor's entrance.  had not killed him I know that he would have seen that we were properly   Jane looked at her father sadly.  His daughter watched him with a pathetic smile upon her lips, and then turning to Mr.
At last the ship came up directly into the wind; the anchor was lowered; down came the sails.  There was great scurrying about on deck.  A boat was lowered, and in it a great chest was placed.  In the stern of the boat, as it drew nearer, Tarzan saw the rat-faced man.  It was but a few minutes later that the boat touched the beach.
Busy life went on as it had been before the darkness and the fright.  But to Tarzan a dawning light had come to explain the mystery of CLOTHES.  How snug he would have been beneath the heavy coat of Sabor! And so was added a further incentive to the adventure.  Tarzan, happily, was uninjured by the fall, alighting catlike upon all fours far outspread to take up the shock.  Thus it was that Tarzan learned by experience the limitations as well as the possibilities of his strange weapon.
Unfortunately for them both, Mr.  At length Professor Porter made an attempt to move one leg.  To his surprise, it responded to his will as in days gone by.  He now drew up its mate and stretched it forth again.  With infinite solicitude Professor Porter wiggled his right arm--joy! It was intact.
So the scream of Sabor, the lioness, galvanized the brain and muscles of little Tarzan into instant action.  Tarzan had always hated water except as a medium for quenching his thirst.  Tarzan now swam to shore and clambered quickly upon dry land.  Tublat, her mate, always hated Tarzan, and on several occasions had come near ending his youthful career.  What Tarzan did they tried to do also, but he alone originated and became proficient.
Tarzan was directly over Kulonga, as he made the discovery.  The forest ended abruptly and beyond lay two hundred yards of planted fields between the jungle and the village.  So quickly did Tarzan of the Apes drag back his prey that Kulonga's cry of alarm was throttled in his windpipe.  Tarzan examined the black minutely, for he had never seen any other human being.  The knife with its sheath and belt caught his eye; he appropriated them.
Those who were killed he could not aid, those who escaped would not need his assistance.  It was to those who had neither been killed or escaped that he hastened.  And he knew that he would find them by the great post in the center of Mbonga village.  He knew, too, that they seldom lost much time before consummating the fiendish purpose of their captures.  He doubted that he would arrive in time to do more than avenge.
The rat-faced sailor had half drawn his revolver; the other sailors stood watching the scene intently.  Professor Porter had already disappeared into the jungle, whither he was being followed by the fussy Samuel T.  Philander, his secretary and assistant.  And then three things happened almost simultaneously.  The revolver exploded harmlessly in the air, and the seaman crumpled up with a scream of pain and terror.
and when the spirit of her mother is abroad, it will find us together in death, as it has always found us in life.  The old man looked up, regarding the strong, handsome face of William Cecil Clayton intently.  Perhaps he read there the love that lay in the heart beneath--the love for his daughter.  Now they came back to him, one by one.  It would be cruelly wicked to leave poor Esmeralda here alone, and three of us would be no more successful than one.
Tarzan thought for a long time.  D'Arnot pointed out a spot on the shore just north of them.  Again D'Arnot smiled and shook his head.  that I also would rather die than remain here.  If you go, I shall go     It took a long time to make him understand even imperfectly.
Some twenty souls in all there were, fifteen of them rough and villainous appearing seamen.  The others of the party were of different stamp.  One was an elderly man, with white hair and large rimmed spectacles.  After these came a huge Negress clothed like Solomon as to colors.  She gave him a brave and pretty smile of thanks, but no words passed between them.
Behind trailed the women, uttering strange cries and weird lamentation.  On they came to the portals of Kulonga's hut, the very one in which Tarzan had wrought his depredations.  Scarcely had half a dozen entered the building ere they came rushing out in wild, jabbering confusion.  The others hastened to gather about.  It was Mbonga, the king, father of Kulonga.
Several small animals passed unharmed beneath him.  He did not want such insignificant game.  It would take a strong animal to test the efficacy of his new scheme.  Her great padded feet fell soft and noiseless on the narrow trail.  Her head was high in ever alert attention; her long tail moved slowly in sinuous and graceful undulations.
Like a thing of bronze, motionless as death, sat Tarzan.  Sabor passed beneath.  One stride beyond she took--a second, a third, and then the silent coil shot out above her.  He had learned from experience.  Tarzan had fastened the end of the rope securely to the trunk of the great tree on which he sat.
Before the drum sat three old females, each armed with a knotted branch fifteen or eighteen inches in length.  Another male then sprang into the arena, and, repeating the horrid cries of his king, followed stealthily in his wake.  It was the challenge and the hunt.  When all the adult males had joined in the thin line of circling dancers the attack commenced.  Tarzan was one of the wild, leaping horde.
D'Arnot turned back to the window, and presently the police officer spoke.  Both turned toward him.  or lesser extent upon the absolute correctness of this comparison.  I therefore ask that you leave the entire matter in my hands until Monsieur Desquerc, our expert returns.  A moment later the passenger was entering the library of the old home.
scarcely breathed as he voiced the horrible thought.  Esmeralda broke into uncontrollable sobbing.  Professor Porter finally broke the silence.  to-morrow, as soon as it is light, I shall take what food I can carry and continue the search until I have found Jane.  I will not return  His companions did not reply at once.
Suddenly something snapped in the wicked little brain of the anthropoid.  With a frightful roar the great beast sprang among the assemblage.  the fangs of a greater!  Do mighty fighters fly to the trees at the challenge of his kind.  Quietly Tarzan dropped to the ground.  Breathlessly the tribe watched from their lofty perches as Kerchak, still roaring, charged the relatively puny figure.
I am the mightiest of the jungle fighters.  You are Jane Porter, I saw it in your letter.  When you see this you will know that it is for you and that Tarzan of the Apes loves you.  It was the passing of a great ape through the lower branches of the forest.  Clayton, also, heard the scream, and Professor Porter and Mr.
When they had all come Tarzan turned toward them.  of the Apes and Kala, his mother.  The morning after the Dum-Dum the tribe started slowly back through the forest toward the coast.  The body of Tublat lay where it had fallen, for the people of Kerchak do not eat their own dead.  The march was but a leisurely search for food.
High hills shut it off on three sides, the ocean on the fourth.  It was alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes.  Its untouched mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the human beasts beyond its frontier.  At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung, in single file, over the brow of a low hill.  Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and on each breast three concentric circles.
Before the officers had taken a dozen backward steps the men were upon them.  As he turned to descend the ladder he was surprised to see his wife standing on the steps almost at his side.  With equal heartlessness they disposed of their own dead and dying.  Presently one of the crew spied the approaching Claytons, and with a uplifted ax.  But Black Michael was a fit leader for this band of cutthroats, and, withal held them in fair subjection to his rule.
Clayton shook his head.  It was plain to see that a burden had been lifted from their minds.  Six days later Captain Dufranne announced that they would sail early on the morrow.  In spite of herself she began to entertain doubts and fears.  The reasonableness of the arguments of these disinterested French officers commenced to convince her against her will.
Another thing she did, and which made traveling an onerous trial for her.  She had seen one child fall from her back to a terrible death, and she would take no further chances with this.  Why, it could not even find food alone, and more than twelve moons had passed since Kala had come upon it.  carry him and protect him.  What good will he be to the tribe?  None; only a burden.
In an instant they were in a hand-to-hand fight with some fifty black warriors of Mbonga's village.  Arrows and bullets flew thick and fast.  Four of the twenty were dead, a dozen others were wounded, and Lieutenant D'Arnot was missing.  There was but one thing to do, make camp where they were until daylight.  Lieutenant Charpentier ordered a clearing made and a circular abatis of underbrush constructed about the camp.
Clayton had wanted to leave as soon as the plan was announced, but the girl's tired, hopeless look kept him.  He could not desert her.  Something might happen yet, he tried to console himself by thinking.  Early the next morning Canler set out for town.  About noon Jane started off for a walk.
He was indeed an officer and a gentleman--a title conferred on many, but deserved by so few.  It was quite late when they reached the cabin by the beach.  By the cabin door stood Jane.  answered, his face drawn with fatigue and the sorrow he felt for poor D'Arnot and he emphasized the word before.  The girl's head went high.
On this day, however, he presently had other and more immediate interests to attract his attention.  All nature waited--but not for long.  Faintly, from a distance, came a low, sad moaning.  Nearer and nearer it approached, mounting louder and louder in volume.  The great trees bent in unison as though pressed earthward by a mighty hand.
Say that you forgive me.  A week ago that sentence would have filled her with delight, now it depressed her.  She wished she had never met Clayton.  She was sorry that she had ever seen the forest god.  Even the turning of his head caused him such excruciating agony that he lay still with closed eyes for a long time.
Philander was placing the frail bones of the infant in a bit of sail cloth, he examined the skull minutely.  Then he called Professor Porter to his side, and the two argued in low tones for several minutes.  In his savage, untutored breast new emotions were stirring.  He could not fathom them.  He wondered why he felt so great an interest in these people--why he had gone to such pains to save the three men.
That he joyed in killing, and that he killed with a joyous laugh upon his handsome lips betokened no innate cruelty.  At length he came to a great tree, heavy laden with thick foliage and loaded with pendant loops of giant creepers.  There were naked children running and playing in the village street.  Out in the fields he could see still other women hoeing, weeding, or gathering.  Tarzan of the Apes looked with growing wonder at these strange creatures.
From the cabin came Mr.  Philander and Esmeralda.  From where Tarzan and the girl stood they could not see the two vessels lying at anchor in the harbor.  Tarzan pointed toward the sounds, touched his breast and pointed again.  He was going, and something told her that it was because he thought her people were in danger.
three weeks upon the march.  Why, Sabor, single handed, could exterminate a thousand  D'Arnot laughed.  and navies, its great cities, and its mighty engineering works.  But Kerchak could never think far enough ahead to take advantage of any such opportunity.  Even Kala, my mother, could never plan ahead.
When Tarzan killed he more often smiled than scowled, and smiles are the foundation of beauty.  As she lay more quietly in his arms Tarzan slightly relaxed his grip upon her.  As Tarzan moved steadily onward his mind was occupied with many strange and new thoughts.  He knew why the ape had not killed her, and he commenced to compare his intentions with those of Terkoz.  The green turf looked soft and cool and inviting.
When you see this you will know that it is for you and that Tarzan of the Apes loves you.  It was the passing of a great ape through the lower branches of the forest.  Clayton, also, heard the scream, and Professor Porter and Mr.  A glance within confirmed their worst fears.  Jane and Esmeralda were not there.
Gently the door opened until a thin crack showed something standing just beyond.  D'Arnot sighted along the blue barrel at the crack of the door--and then he pulled the trigger.  there are two friends in that jungle who will come out of it some day expecting to find us awaiting them.  has saved the lives of every member of my father's party is the other.  of my father and Mr.
carry him and protect him.  What good will he be to the tribe?  None; only a burden.  And day by day his strength was increasing.  He was nearly ten before he commenced to realize that a great difference existed between himself and his fellows.  He attempted to obviate this by plastering himself from head to foot with mud, but this dried and fell off.
Apes had written in English, and you could not understand a word of any  Again he laughed.  now D'Arnot has made matters worse by teaching me to speak French instead of English.  As they drove along, he said:    would possibly be married by now.  That a man named Canler had come up      She buried her face in her hands.  He was silent for a moment.
His eyes rested upon the open doorway of a nearby hut.  He would take a look within, thought Tarzan, and so, cautiously, he approached the low thatched building.  For a moment he stood without, listening intently.  There was no sound, and he glided into the semi-darkness of the interior.  Weapons hung against the walls--long spears, strangely shaped knives, a couple of narrow shields.
Their water was gone, and in another day they would be without food.  Conditions changed rapidly from bad to worse.  One man went mad and leaped overboard.  Soon another opened his veins and drank his own blood.  When he died they threw him overboard also, though there were those among them who wanted to keep the corpse on board.
Something was at the door trying to enter.  D'Arnot reached for the loaded rifle and placed it to his shoulder.  Dusk was falling, and the interior of the cabin was very dark; but the man could see the latch moving from its place.  He felt his hair rising upon his scalp.  Gently the door opened until a thin crack showed something standing just beyond.
There was an ugly flesh wound, but no signs of a fracture of the skull.  D'Arnot breathed a sigh of relief, and went about bathing the blood from Tarzan's face.  Soon the cool water revived him, and presently he opened his eyes to look in questioning surprise at D'Arnot.  Tarzan, after reading the message, sat on the edge of the couch and laughed.  D'Arnot handed Tarzan the two messages that had been left for him.
At last the ship came up directly into the wind; the anchor was lowered; down came the sails.  There was great scurrying about on deck.  A boat was lowered, and in it a great chest was placed.  In the stern of the boat, as it drew nearer, Tarzan saw the rat-faced man.  It was but a few minutes later that the boat touched the beach.
Ah, here was a new game, a fine game, thought Tarzan, and immediately he attempted to repeat the trick.  And thus, by painstaking and continued practice, he learned the art of roping.  Now, indeed, was the life of Tublat a living nightmare.  In Tarzan's clever little mind many thoughts revolved, and back of these was his divine power of reason.  But that came in later years.
Breathlessly the tribe watched from their lofty perches as Kerchak, still roaring, charged the relatively puny figure.  Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs.  His enormous shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles.  And thus came the young Lord Greystoke into the kingship of the Apes.  Most of them, therefore, were more than content with the change in rulers.
You have saved my life, and all that I have is yours.  With a human being I have never spoken, except once with Jane Porter, by signs.  This is the first time I have spoken with another of my kind through written words.  D'Arnot was mystified.  That was the American girl who had been carried into the jungle by a gorilla.
Clayton was the first to remember, and, turning, held out his hand.  pardon me if I do not speak to you in English.  I am just learning it,  himself.  Clayton started back in surprise.  And Professor Porter and Mr.
No, the white man did not hear.  Clayton came to his feet with a start.  Never in all his life had so fearful a sound smote upon his ears.  Possibly, too, he thought, the professor and Philander might have returned to camp.  Yes, that was more than likely.
Again he tried to converse with his strange nurse, but the attempt was useless.  D'Arnot was astonished to see, in plain print-like characters, a message in English:   I am Tarzan of the Apes.  Who are you?  Can you read this language?   D'Arnot seized the pencil--then he stopped.  This strange man wrote English--evidently he was an Englishman.  The man only shook his head and pointed to the pencil and the bark.
What was that?  His quick ear had caught a faint but unfamiliar sound.  Soon he saw many people clambering over the sides of the larger vessel and dropping into the boats.  They were coming back in full force.  This notice he stuck upon the door with a small sharp splinter of wood.  When the two boats were beached upon the silvery sand it was a strange assortment of humanity that clambered ashore.
are safely off the thing I shall spend my energies in looking after our own welfare.  And I rather fancy the first step to that end should be to go to our cabin and look over my revolvers.  I am sorry now that we  They found their quarters in a bad state of disorder.  Clothing from their open boxes and bags strewed the little apartment, and even their beds had been torn to pieces.  that our best chance lies in maintaining a neutral position.
Presently he halted before the rifle.  Finding that it harmed him not, Kerchak began to examine it closely.  Suddenly Kerchak's finger closed upon the trigger.  Another thing she did, and which made traveling an onerous trial for her.  She had seen one child fall from her back to a terrible death, and she would take no further chances with this.
They sat beneath the shade of a great tree, and Tarzan found some smooth bark that they might converse.  Tarzan was as anxious to go as D'Arnot, for he longed to see Jane again.  he used so often glide from Tarzan's tongue.  So they set out, D'Arnot marveling as had Clayton and Jane at the wondrous strength and agility of the apeman.  An atmosphere of loneliness pervaded the spot, which caught suddenly at both men as they strode toward the cabin.
They lay where they had fallen between the combatants.  The captain had emptied his revolver and was reloading as the charge was made.  Before the officers had taken a dozen backward steps the men were upon them.  As he turned to descend the ladder he was surprised to see his wife standing on the steps almost at his side.  With equal heartlessness they disposed of their own dead and dying.
Several small animals passed unharmed beneath him.  He did not want such insignificant game.  It would take a strong animal to test the efficacy of his new scheme.  Her great padded feet fell soft and noiseless on the narrow trail.  Her head was high in ever alert attention; her long tail moved slowly in sinuous and graceful undulations.
The wind ceased, the sun shone forth--nature smiled once more.  And, so--as Nature forgot, her children forgot also.  Busy life went on as it had been before the darkness and the fright.  But to Tarzan a dawning light had come to explain the mystery of CLOTHES.  How snug he would have been beneath the heavy coat of Sabor! And so was added a further incentive to the adventure.
Tarzan of the Apes needed no interpreter to translate the story of those distant shots.  He was not interested in the location of the encounter, for he judged that that would soon be over.  Those who were killed he could not aid, those who escaped would not need his assistance.  It was to those who had neither been killed or escaped that he hastened.  And he knew that he would find them by the great post in the center of Mbonga village.
Soon the cool water revived him, and presently he opened his eyes to look in questioning surprise at D'Arnot.  Tarzan, after reading the message, sat on the edge of the couch and laughed.  D'Arnot handed Tarzan the two messages that had been left for him.  Tarzan read the first one through with a look of sorrow on his face.  The second one he turned over and over, searching for an opening--he had never seen a sealed envelope before.
Tarzan took to the trees in pursuit, and in a few moments came in view of the men desperately striving to escape.  There were three of them, and they were racing madly in single file through the dense undergrowth.  A quick jerk drew it taut.  With frightened shrieks they wheeled once more and plunged on in their efforts to escape.  Now indeed was he dressed as a man should be.
As he turned to descend the ladder he was surprised to see his wife standing on the steps almost at his side.  With equal heartlessness they disposed of their own dead and dying.  Presently one of the crew spied the approaching Claytons, and with a uplifted ax.  But Black Michael was a fit leader for this band of cutthroats, and, withal held them in fair subjection to his rule.  On the fifth day following the murder of the ship's officers, land was sighted by the lookout.
The Frenchman had been watching him, and knew that Tarzan was puzzled over the envelope.  How strange it seemed that to a full-grown white man an envelope was a mystery.  D'Arnot opened it and handed the letter back to Tarzan.  Clayton for the kindness you have shown in permitting us the use of your cabin.  That you never came to make friends with us has been a great regret to us.
clutching frantically at Mr.  Philander to regain the balance which the sudden fright had so perilously endangered.  Unfortunately for them both, Mr.  At length Professor Porter made an attempt to move one leg.  To his surprise, it responded to his will as in days gone by.
As they drove along, he said:    would possibly be married by now.  That a man named Canler had come up      She buried her face in her hands.  He was silent for a moment.  Finally they passed the danger point, and Tarzan reduced their speed.  You are a gentleman, and gentlemen do not kill in cold  to himself.
He would take a look within, thought Tarzan, and so, cautiously, he approached the low thatched building.  For a moment he stood without, listening intently.  There was no sound, and he glided into the semi-darkness of the interior.  Weapons hung against the walls--long spears, strangely shaped knives, a couple of narrow shields.  Several human skulls lay upon the floor.
And thus came Tarzan of the Apes to the first outpost of civilization.  of both whites and blacks because of several occurrences which to Tarzan seemed the merest of nothings.  Shouting in alarm, the four took to their heels, and then the black spied Tarzan.  Tarzan met the rush with the fighting smile that the joy of battle always brought to his lips.  there is among ourselves.
It was on a sultry day of the dry season that he and one of his cousins had gone down to the bank to drink.  Tarzan was appalled.  He turned red as he compared it with the beautiful broad nostrils of his companion.  Not thirty paces behind the two she crouched--Sabor, the huge lioness--lashing her tail.  Cautiously she moved a great padded paw forward, noiselessly placing it before she lifted the next.
Here there were no white men, no soldiers, nor any rubber or ivory to be gathered for cruel and thankless taskmasters.  Several moons passed by ere the blacks ventured far into the territory surrounding their new village.  But one day, Kulonga, a son of the old king, Mbonga, wandered far into the dense mazes to the west.  Three miles to the west slept the tribe of Kerchak.  Early the next morning the apes were astir, moving through the jungle in search of food.
shrieked Snipes, with a volley of frightful oaths.  location so's we kin find it again.  You, Tom, and Bill, take a couple    The men all looked up angrily.  hand with this work?  Your shoulder's not hurt so all-fired bad as  revolver nervously.  With the words he raised his pick above his head, and, with a mighty blow, he buried the point in Snipes' brain.
He crept closer through the trees until he was quite close above them.  There were ten men, swarthy, sun-tanned, villainous looking fellows.  As he turned, the little, mean-faced man drew a revolver from his belt and shot the giant in the back.  The conduct of the white strangers it was that caused him the greatest perturbation.  He puckered his brows into a frown of deep thought.
They were evidently no different from the black men--no more civilized than the apes--no less cruel than Sabor.  For a moment the others stood looking at the little, mean-faced man and the giant lying dead upon the beach.  Then one of them laughed and slapped the little man upon the back.  There was much more talk and gesticulating, but less quarreling.  Slipping in at the door he found that everything had been ransacked.
Again he beckoned to them; but still they stood in argument.  Presently the ape-man lost patience with their stupid ignorance.  He grasped the frightened Mr.  Then Tarzan set off toward the north, leading the now thoroughly frightened professor and his secretary.  Here Tarzan released them, and, pointing toward the little building, vanished into the jungle beside them.
Again he kissed her.  He was gone--and Jane turned to walk across the clearing to the cabin.  Philander was the first to see her.  Philander was very near sighted.  Esmeralda did not bother to verify Mr.
It was a determined and angry company--a punitive expedition as well as one of relief.  From there on the elephant-track led straight to Mbonga's village.  It was but two o'clock when the head of the column halted upon the edge of the clearing.  For half an hour the men with Lieutenant Charpentier crouched in the dense foliage of the jungle, waiting the signal.  To them it seemed like hours.
Again they stopped--beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now glued themselves.  beyond, she saw framed in the tiny square of the latticed window the head of a huge lioness.  The gleaming eyes were fixed upon her in intent ferocity.  The sight that met the poor woman's eyes was too much for the already overstrung nerves.  For what seemed an eternity the great brute stood with its forepaws upon the sill, glaring into the little room.
I had this story from one who had no business to tell it to me, or to any other.  When he received this appointment he was both elated and appalled.  For her sake he would have refused the appointment, but she would not have it so.  Instead she insisted that he accept, and, indeed, take her with him.  And here John, Lord Greystoke, and Lady Alice, his wife, vanished from the eyes and from the knowledge of men.
At intervals Clayton called aloud and finally it came to Tarzan that he was searching for the old man.  It was Sheeta, the leopard.  Now, Tarzan heard the soft bending of grasses and wondered why the young white man was not warned.  Could it be he had failed to note the loud warning?  Never before had Tarzan known Sheeta to be so clumsy.  No, the white man did not hear.
His heart was filled with happiness.  The woman he loved was safe.  He wondered by what manner of miracle she had been spared.  To see her alive seemed almost unbelievable.  As he approached the cabin he saw Jane coming out.
She heard a sudden, slight sound behind her.  With a cry she sprang to her feet and turned to face her end.  There stood Tarzan, his arms filled with ripe and luscious fruit.  Jane reeled and would have fallen, had not Tarzan, dropping his burden, caught her in his arms.  She did not lose consciousness, but she clung tightly to him, shuddering and trembling like a frightened deer.
The two sailors picked themselves up, the older man assisting his wounded comrade to rise.  Though the fellow's tone was surly, his words were evidently well meant.  There was in the whole atmosphere of the craft that undefinable something which presages disaster.  John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, did not ask to be transferred to the British man-of-war.  But keep a still tongue in yer 'ead an' when ye 'ear shootin' git below an' stay there.
Never had he traveled with such reckless speed.  But no matter how fast he went he found them always with him.  kind to die in the jungle if it suited your whim to go elsewhere.  run away from one of your own people, because one of them has run away   D'Arnot closed the cabin door.  He was very nervous.
Professor Porter deigned to make no response to this puerile inquiry.  Instead he raised his head gently from the ground, nodding it back and forth a half dozen times.  Philander had not moved from where he had fallen; he had not dared the attempt.  brain, superinducing total mental aberration.  Then he sat up and felt of various portions of his anatomy.
The lioness was now back in the path where she could see the author of the indignity which had been placed upon her.  Instead he perched lightly upon a smaller branch twenty feet above the raging captive.  Tarzan was much hurt.  To him life was never monotonous or stale.  Quick was Sabor, the lioness, and quick were Numa and Sheeta, but Tarzan of the Apes was lightning.
She could hear the great padded paws upon the ground outside.  For an instant, all was silence; even the bedlam of the forest died to a faint murmur.  Then she distinctly heard the beast outside sniffing at the door, not two feet from where she crouched.  Instinctively the girl shuddered, and shrank closer to the black woman.  groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just beyond the thin wall.
saved your life, Miss Porter.  Tarzan of the Apes was gone.  Clayton called several times, but there was no reply, and so the two returned to the greater safety of the interior.  And now, for Jane Porter, the reaction came, and she threw herself upon the bench, sobbing with hysterical laughter.  Several miles south of the cabin, upon a strip of sandy beach, stood two old men, arguing.
He saw that these people were more wicked than his own apes, and as savage and cruel as Sabor, herself.  Tarzan began to hold his own kind in low esteem.  In a larger circle squatted the women, yelling and beating upon drums.  It reminded Tarzan of the Dum-Dum, and so he knew what to expect.  He wondered if they would spring upon their meat while it was still alive.
Twice more he saw him hurl his arrows of destruction--once at Dango, the hyena, and again at Manu, the monkey.  In each instance the animal died almost instantly, for Kulonga's poison was very fresh and very deadly.  Tarzan thought much on this wondrous method of slaying as he swung slowly along at a safe distance behind his quarry.  He must look into the matter.  That night Kulonga slept in the crotch of a mighty tree and far above him crouched Tarzan of the Apes.
She realized that it was because she had forgotten the fear that prompted her to accept it.  For hours they swung slowly along.  Tarzan of the Apes did not hurry.  But again the timidity of the wild thing in the face of human habitation swept over Tarzan of the Apes.  He drew back, shaking his head.
He wondered if they would spring upon their meat while it was still alive.  The Apes did not do such things as that.  Presently a spear reached out and pricked the victim.  It was the signal for fifty others.  The women and children shrieked their delight.
D'Arnot turned back to the window, and presently the police officer spoke.  Both turned toward him.  or lesser extent upon the absolute correctness of this comparison.  I therefore ask that you leave the entire matter in my hands until Monsieur Desquerc, our expert returns.  A moment later the passenger was entering the library of the old home.
She saw her prey--the two women--lying senseless upon the floor.  There was no longer any resistance to be overcome.  Her meat lay before her, and Sabor had only to worm her way through the lattice to claim it.  Slowly she forced her great bulk, inch by inch, through the opening.  Now her head was through, now one great forearm and shoulder.
Whether out of compassion for them, or in furtherance of his own self-interests, it would be difficult to say.  He did not attempt to check her tears.  Work must be our salvation.  We must not give ourselves time to think, for in that direction lies madness.  distant past faced the same problems which we must face, possibly in these same primeval forests.
Jane is beyond human assistance now.  What was once my dear little girl shall not lie alone and friendless in the awful jungle.  and when the spirit of her mother is abroad, it will find us together in death, as it has always found us in life.  The old man looked up, regarding the strong, handsome face of William Cecil Clayton intently.  Perhaps he read there the love that lay in the heart beneath--the love for his daughter.
And then Tublat went mad.  In the brilliant moonlight Tarzan witnessed the whole mad carnival of rage.  He saw the females and the young scamper to the safety of the trees.  Now she was beneath the overhanging limbs and close above her crouched Tarzan, waiting the outcome of the race.  But his fangs never closed in that nut brown flesh.
But he did not wonder why he had torn Sabor from the tender flesh of the strange girl.  Surely the men were stupid and ridiculous and cowardly.  Even Manu, the monkey, was more intelligent than they.  If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted.  But the girl, ah--that was a different matter.
for he did not believe it.  The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.  Clayton looked puzzled.  know nothing of him.  He must belong to the tribes which attacked us, or to  Jane blanched.
Nor does he need to check his speed to catch these seemingly faint records of the fleeing beast.  To Tarzan they stand out boldly against all the myriad other scars and bruises and signs upon the leafy way.  Man's survival does not hinge so greatly upon the perfection of his senses.  Not so with Tarzan of the Apes.  To Jane the strange apparition of this god-like man was as wine to sick nerves.
The wanderings of the tribe brought them often near the closed and silent cabin by the little land-locked harbor.  To Tarzan this was always a source of never-ending mystery and pleasure.  The story of his own connection with the cabin had never been told him.  Finally he stumbled upon the right combination, and the door swung creakingly open before his astonished eyes.  To none of these evidences of a fearful tragedy of a long dead day did little Tarzan give but passing heed.
The apes scattered by ones, and twos, and threes in all directions, but ever within sound of a signal of alarm.  Kala did not wait to see more, but, turning, moved rapidly back along the trail.  She did not run; but, after the manner of her kind when not aroused, sought rather to avoid than to escape.  Close after her came Kulonga.  He could make a killing and feast well this day.
Porter!  I am a desperate man.  years, and God alone knows how hard I have tried to be 'human' for  Another old hand stole up from Mr.  They did not speak for some minutes.  The lion below them paced nervously back and forth.  The third figure in the tree was hidden by the dense shadows near the stem.
And all the way Kala carried her little dead baby hugged closely to her breast.  Today there was no sign of the man about, and from where they watched they could see that the cabin door was open.  Slowly, cautiously, and noiselessly they crept through the jungle toward the little cabin.  On, on they came until Kerchak himself slunk stealthily to the very door and peered within.  Behind him were two males, and then Kala, closely straining the little dead form to her breast.
He knew why the ape had not killed her, and he commenced to compare his intentions with those of Terkoz.  The green turf looked soft and cool and inviting.  What a perfect creature!  There could be naught of cruelty or baseness beneath that godlike exterior.  Never, she thought had such a man strode the earth since God created the first in his own image.  With a bound Tarzan sprang into the trees and disappeared.
Philander, preceding it, was precipitated upon his back.  At the instant he fell a remarkable item of natural history leaped to his mind.  If one feigns death lions and lionesses are supposed to ignore one, according to Mr.  Philander's faulty memory.  Philander lay as he had fallen, frozen into the horrid semblance of death.
her nerves a-tingle at the thought that she spoke of her own.  Professor Porter was there, and Mr.  The officers arose and saluted as their superior approached, and Clayton surrendered his camp stool to Jane.  opportunity to harm us himself, or to lead his people against us.  grizzly--absolutely without sign of fear or hesitation--you would have believed him more than human.
know nothing of him.  He must belong to the tribes which attacked us, or to  Jane blanched.  that he will prove that you are wrong.  You do not know him as I do.  that any of us need worry about our carrion-eating acquaintance.
At first Tarzan would eat nothing, but rolled and tossed in a wild delirium of fever.  All he craved was water, and this she brought him in the only way she could, bearing it in her own mouth.  At last the fever abated and the boy commenced to mend.  No word of complaint passed his tight set lips, though the pain of his wounds was excruciating.  A portion of his chest was laid bare to the ribs, three of which had been broken by the mighty blows of the gorilla.
The Apes did not do such things as that.  Presently a spear reached out and pricked the victim.  It was the signal for fifty others.  The women and children shrieked their delight.  Then it was that Tarzan of the Apes saw his chance.
She did not lose consciousness, but she clung tightly to him, shuddering and trembling like a frightened deer.  Once he pressed his lips lightly upon her forehead, and she did not move, but closed her eyes and sighed.  She could not analyze her feelings, nor did she wish to attempt it.  She wondered and then she smiled.  Tarzan shook his head, and an expression of wistful and pathetic longing sobered his laughing eyes.
Armed men rushed from the interior of many a hut and raced madly across the clearing toward the excited sentry.  After them trooped the old men, and the women and children until, in a moment, the village was deserted.  Quickly and noiselessly he dropped to the ground beside the cauldron of poison.  For a moment he stood motionless, his quick, bright eyes scanning the interior of the palisade.  No one was in sight.
As I  garbed in the mantle of virtue.  You have accused me of cowardice.  You have insinuated that you ran only to overtake me, not to escape the clutches of the lion.  Have a care, Professor Archimedes Q.  Porter!  I am a desperate man.
The reasonableness of the arguments of these disinterested French officers commenced to convince her against her will.  She would not admit that he could be dead.  As Jane permitted herself to harbor these thoughts, others equally unwelcome forced themselves upon her.  If he belonged to some savage tribe he had a savage wife--a dozen of them perhaps--and wild, half-caste children.  The girl shuddered, and when they told her that the cruiser would sail on the morrow she was almost glad.
But he did not wonder why he had torn Sabor from the tender flesh of the strange girl.  Surely the men were stupid and ridiculous and cowardly.  Even Manu, the monkey, was more intelligent than they.  If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted.  But the girl, ah--that was a different matter.
This is the first time I have spoken with another of my kind through written words.  D'Arnot was mystified.  That was the American girl who had been carried into the jungle by a gorilla.  She is not dead then?  Where was she?  What happened to her?   She is not dead.  None in all the jungle may face Tarzan of the Apes in battle, and live.
turning toward the door; but his companion was not there.  D'Arnot walked to the door and looked out.  Tarzan was nowhere in sight.  He called aloud but there was no response.  The man had been hard hit--D'Arnot realized it now--but why?  He could not understand.
Clayton stood rigid, with raised spear.  Presently a faint rustling of the bush apprised him of the stealthy creeping of the thing behind.  It was gathering for the spring.  At last he saw it, not twenty feet away--the long, lithe, muscular body and tawny head of a huge black-maned lion.  The beast was upon its belly, moving forward very slowly.
our officers and robbed us.  he deliberately turned his back full upon the sailor and walked nonchalantly away as if to put him to the test.  The gaze of his fellows was upon him, but still he hesitated.  At heart he was even a greater coward than Mr.  William Cecil Clayton had imagined.
answered, his face drawn with fatigue and the sorrow he felt for poor D'Arnot and he emphasized the word before.  The girl's head went high.  Then he wrote upon a piece of paper and shoved it beneath the partition.  MY DEAR MISS PORTER:  I had no reason to insinuate what I did.  My only excuse is that my nerves must be unstrung--which is no excuse at all.
Porter turned in the direction indicated by the nearsighted Mr.  The moonlight flooded the beach, and the strange group stood out in bold relief against the yellow sand.  never before in my life have I known one of these animals to be permitted to roam at large from its cage.  Philander set off in the direction that would put the greatest distance between themselves and the lion.  They had proceeded but a short distance when a backward glance revealed to the horrified gaze of Mr.
The ubiquitous Esmeralda grunted.  Only Tarzan did not comprehend.  Presently Robert Canler burst into the room.  I was cut off on the south road and had to go away back to town, and then strike east to this road.  I thought we'd never reach  No one seemed to enthuse much.
Then he wrote upon a piece of paper and shoved it beneath the partition.  MY DEAR MISS PORTER:  I had no reason to insinuate what I did.  My only excuse is that my nerves must be unstrung--which is no excuse at all.  Please try and think that I did not say it.  I would not have hurt YOU, above all others in the world.
For the sailors, and especially Snipes, he had developed a great hatred.  The ape-man, hiding safe behind a screen of foliage, sat watching this new specimen of his own race intently.  At intervals Clayton called aloud and finally it came to Tarzan that he was searching for the old man.  It was Sheeta, the leopard.  Now, Tarzan heard the soft bending of grasses and wondered why the young white man was not warned.
On and on they came.  Soon the flames had spanned the road to the south and cut off Canler's return.  Suddenly, out of the northeast, a great black car came careening down the road.  With a jolt it stopped before the cottage, and a black-haired giant leaped out to run up onto the porch.  Without a pause he rushed into the house.
Slowly the circumstances of her position crept one by one into her mind.  She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan.  He was gone; but this time no fear assailed her for she knew that he would return.  In the grass at the entrance to her bower she saw the imprint of his body where he had lain all night to guard her.  She knew that the fact that he had been there was all that had permitted her to sleep in such peaceful security.
D'Arnot sighted along the blue barrel at the crack of the door--and then he pulled the trigger.  there are two friends in that jungle who will come out of it some day expecting to find us awaiting them.  has saved the lives of every member of my father's party is the other.  of my father and Mr.  Clayton, as he thought, and he has stayed to rescue Lieutenant D'Arnot; of that you may be sure.
from his desk and examined all three specimens carefully, making notations meanwhile upon a pad of paper.  Tarzan realized now what was the meaning of their visit to the police officer.  The answer to his life's riddle lay in these tiny marks.  With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair, but suddenly he relaxed and dropped back, smiling.  D'Arnot looked at him in surprise.
Two more attempts he made to rejoin the tribe, but on each occasion he was set upon and driven away.  At last he gave it up, and turned, foaming with rage and hatred, into the jungle.  He was right above them when he discovered them.  One piercing scream escaped her lips as the brute hand clutched her arm.  Then she was dragged toward those awful fangs which yawned at her throat.
Scarcely had they closed their eyes than the terrifying cry of a panther rang out from the jungle behind them.  Closer and closer it came until they could hear the great beast directly beneath them.  The task was an arduous one and required the better part of a month, though he built but one small room.  At one end he built a fireplace of small stones from the beach.  Thus they obtained air and proper ventilation without fear of lessening the safety of their cabin.
The man was small and rather old, so that the brutality of the act was thus accentuated.  The two sailors picked themselves up, the older man assisting his wounded comrade to rise.  Though the fellow's tone was surly, his words were evidently well meant.  There was in the whole atmosphere of the craft that undefinable something which presages disaster.  John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, did not ask to be transferred to the British man-of-war.
Roughly she shook her.  Esmeralda opened her eyes.  The first object they encountered was the dripping fangs of the hungry lioness.  Quickly she snatched it from its hiding-place, and, leveling it full at the lioness's face, pulled the trigger.  There was a flash of flame, the roar of the discharge, and an answering roar of pain and anger from the beast.
He felt his hair rising upon his scalp.  Gently the door opened until a thin crack showed something standing just beyond.  D'Arnot sighted along the blue barrel at the crack of the door--and then he pulled the trigger.  there are two friends in that jungle who will come out of it some day expecting to find us awaiting them.  has saved the lives of every member of my father's party is the other.
Sabor passed beneath.  One stride beyond she took--a second, a third, and then the silent coil shot out above her.  He had learned from experience.  Tarzan had fastened the end of the rope securely to the trunk of the great tree on which he sat.  The lioness was now back in the path where she could see the author of the indignity which had been placed upon her.
Tarzan did not attempt to escape.  Tarzan of the Apes went down beneath the great body of his enemy, but with gleaming knife drawn and striking home.  The forest echoed to the savage and triumphant paean.  Deftly he removed the great pelt, for he had practiced often on smaller animals.  So quickly the virus worked that at the end of a dozen leaps the deer plunged headlong into the undergrowth, dead.
The great trees bent in unison as though pressed earthward by a mighty hand.  Then, suddenly, the jungle giants whipped back, lashing their mighty tops in angry and deafening protest.  A vivid and blinding light flashed from the whirling, inky clouds above.  The deep cannonade of roaring thunder belched forth its fearsome challenge.  The deluge came--all hell broke loose upon the jungle.
Tarzan there was no word for man, and Tarzan could only write the word in English; he could not pronounce it.  The tribe had gathered about to look upon the proof of his wondrous prowess, and to listen to his words.  Only Kerchak hung back, nursing his hatred and his rage.  Suddenly something snapped in the wicked little brain of the anthropoid.  With a frightful roar the great beast sprang among the assemblage.
Tarzan was appalled.  He turned red as he compared it with the beautiful broad nostrils of his companion.  Not thirty paces behind the two she crouched--Sabor, the huge lioness--lashing her tail.  Cautiously she moved a great padded paw forward, noiselessly placing it before she lifted the next.  No longer the tail lashed--quiet and straight behind her it lay.
Work must be our salvation.  We must not give ourselves time to think, for in that direction lies madness.  distant past faced the same problems which we must face, possibly in these same primeval forests.  That we are here today evidences their victory.  Across this framework Clayton placed other smaller branches quite close together.
Thus, in addition to the many necessities they had brought, there were also many luxuries.  Black Michael was determined that nothing belonging to the Claytons should be left on board.  Whether out of compassion for them, or in furtherance of his own self-interests, it would be difficult to say.  He did not attempt to check her tears.  Work must be our salvation.
At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter's bent old shoulder.  Jane is beyond human assistance now.  What was once my dear little girl shall not lie alone and friendless in the awful jungle.  and when the spirit of her mother is abroad, it will find us together in death, as it has always found us in life.  The old man looked up, regarding the strong, handsome face of William Cecil Clayton intently.
He knew, too, that they seldom lost much time before consummating the fiendish purpose of their captures.  He doubted that he would arrive in time to do more than avenge.  Presently he caught the reflection of a distant blaze.  It lay to the right of his path.  It was the camp fire of the Frenchmen.
has saved the lives of every member of my father's party is the other.  of my father and Mr.  Clayton, as he thought, and he has stayed to rescue Lieutenant D'Arnot; of that you may be sure.  It is strong circumstantial evidence, I will admit, but it   The girl laughed.  her nerves a-tingle at the thought that she spoke of her own.
Another spear and then another touched him.  He closed his eyes and held his teeth firm set--he would not cry out.  He was a soldier of France, and he would teach these beasts how an officer and a gentleman died.  Tarzan of the Apes needed no interpreter to translate the story of those distant shots.  He was not interested in the location of the encounter, for he judged that that would soon be over.
I had this story from one who had no business to tell it to me, or to any other.  When he received this appointment he was both elated and appalled.  For her sake he would have refused the appointment, but she would not have it so.  Instead she insisted that he accept, and, indeed, take her with him.  And here John, Lord Greystoke, and Lady Alice, his wife, vanished from the eyes and from the knowledge of men.
there are two friends in that jungle who will come out of it some day expecting to find us awaiting them.  has saved the lives of every member of my father's party is the other.  of my father and Mr.  Clayton, as he thought, and he has stayed to rescue Lieutenant D'Arnot; of that you may be sure.  It is strong circumstantial evidence, I will admit, but it   The girl laughed.
Jane, turning at the cry, saw the cause of it lying prone upon the floor before them--the whitened skeleton of a man.  A further glance revealed a second skeleton upon the bed.  there was no panic in her fright.  Then they sat down upon a bench with their arms about one another, and waited.  So much had Tarzan seen that day that his head was in a whirl of wonder.
Breathlessly the tribe watched from their lofty perches as Kerchak, still roaring, charged the relatively puny figure.  Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs.  His enormous shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles.  And thus came the young Lord Greystoke into the kingship of the Apes.  Most of them, therefore, were more than content with the change in rulers.
They sat beneath the shade of a great tree, and Tarzan found some smooth bark that they might converse.  Tarzan was as anxious to go as D'Arnot, for he longed to see Jane again.  he used so often glide from Tarzan's tongue.  So they set out, D'Arnot marveling as had Clayton and Jane at the wondrous strength and agility of the apeman.  An atmosphere of loneliness pervaded the spot, which caught suddenly at both men as they strode toward the cabin.
You knew the one best way to force me to marry you, without seeming to force me.  thought that the prompting of a magnanimous and noble character.  But you are deep, Mr.  I know you better than you think I know you.  Of course you are right.
He came close to her once more and took hold of her arm.  She turned upon him like a tigress, striking his great breast with her tiny hands.  Tarzan could not understand it.  Since then Tarzan of the Apes had felt a warm, lithe form close pressed to his.  Again he laid his hand upon her arm.
Gently the lithe boy dropped to the soft earth at the end of the village street.  He had taken but a step, however, ere his quick ear caught the sound of approaching footsteps immediately without.  In another instant the figure of a woman darkened the entrance of the hut.  Tarzan drew back silently to the far wall, and his hand sought the long, keen hunting knife of his father.  The woman came quickly to the center of the hut.
Though the fellow's tone was surly, his words were evidently well meant.  There was in the whole atmosphere of the craft that undefinable something which presages disaster.  John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, did not ask to be transferred to the British man-of-war.  But keep a still tongue in yer 'ead an' when ye 'ear shootin' git below an' stay there.  fellow went on with his polishing, which carried him away from where the Claytons were standing.
The girl had entirely forgotten it.  She realized that it was because she had forgotten the fear that prompted her to accept it.  For hours they swung slowly along.  Tarzan of the Apes did not hurry.  But again the timidity of the wild thing in the face of human habitation swept over Tarzan of the Apes.
The rope sped with singing whir high above the heads of the blacks.  It was quite invisible in the flaring lights of the camp fires.  D'Arnot opened his eyes.  A huge black, standing directly before him, lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand.  Struggling and shrieking, his body, rolling from side to side, moved quickly toward the shadows beneath the trees.
He gathered her in his arms, whispering words of courage and love into her ears.  Clayton lay facing the opening at the front, a rifle and a brace of revolvers at his hand.  Scarcely had they closed their eyes than the terrifying cry of a panther rang out from the jungle behind them.  Closer and closer it came until they could hear the great beast directly beneath them.  The task was an arduous one and required the better part of a month, though he built but one small room.
There would still be life in it, but death then would be the only charity it craved.  The stake stood forty feet from the nearest tree.  Tarzan coiled his rope.  Then there rose suddenly above the fiendish cries of the dancing demons the awful challenge of the ape-man.  The dancers halted as though turned to stone.
What was that?  His quick ear had caught a faint but unfamiliar sound.  Soon he saw many people clambering over the sides of the larger vessel and dropping into the boats.  They were coming back in full force.  This notice he stuck upon the door with a small sharp splinter of wood.  When the two boats were beached upon the silvery sand it was a strange assortment of humanity that clambered ashore.
In his savage, untutored breast new emotions were stirring.  He could not fathom them.  He wondered why he felt so great an interest in these people--why he had gone to such pains to save the three men.  But he did not wonder why he had torn Sabor from the tender flesh of the strange girl.  Surely the men were stupid and ridiculous and cowardly.
I am the greatest of the jungle fighters.  I will fight for you.  I am the mightiest of the jungle fighters.  You are Jane Porter, I saw it in your letter.  When you see this you will know that it is for you and that Tarzan of the Apes loves you.
The body of Tublat lay where it had fallen, for the people of Kerchak do not eat their own dead.  The march was but a leisurely search for food.  The nuts they cracked between their powerful jaws, or, if too hard, broke by pounding between stones.  He hurled a pineapple at the ancient enemy of his people.  The great beast stopped and, turning, eyed the taunting figure above her.
To his agility, to his brain and to his long keen knife he owed his supremacy.  Then, squatting upon his haunches, he proceeded to eat, first motioning Clayton to join him.  If so he must speak English.  No, this could not be Tarzan of the Apes, for it was very evident that he was an utter stranger to English.  Then he left him to follow voluntarily.
As she lay more quietly in his arms Tarzan slightly relaxed his grip upon her.  As Tarzan moved steadily onward his mind was occupied with many strange and new thoughts.  He knew why the ape had not killed her, and he commenced to compare his intentions with those of Terkoz.  The green turf looked soft and cool and inviting.  What a perfect creature!  There could be naught of cruelty or baseness beneath that godlike exterior.
Very respectfully, WM.  An hour later he started up listening.  Something was at the door trying to enter.  D'Arnot reached for the loaded rifle and placed it to his shoulder.  Dusk was falling, and the interior of the cabin was very dark; but the man could see the latch moving from its place.
I will have my hands full keeping your neck from beneath the  Tarzan lowered his bow and smiled.  yet not kill them here.  Presently one of the blacks looked up, and beholding Tarzan, turned, shrieking, toward the palisade.  The latter eyed them in puzzled bewilderment.  The man had lowered his rifle and now advanced with outstretched hand.
I should hate to trust its findings further than to differentiate between individuals.  There it is absolute.  No two people born into the world probably have ever had identical lines upon all their digits.  Tarzan looked at the book in surprise.  How did D'Arnot come to have his book?  Presently D'Arnot stopped at a page on which were five tiny little smudges.
With man it is different.  They flee man as man flees a pestilence.  This necessitated watching by day on Tarzan's part to discover where the arrows were being concealed.  The duties of kingship among the anthropoids are not many or arduous.  In the afternoon comes Thaka, possibly, to complain that old Mungo has stolen his new wife.
For a few moments all was silent.  Then Mbonga emerged, a look of mingled wrath and superstitious fear writ upon his hideous countenance.  Mbonga could explain nothing of the strange events that had taken place.  Tarzan of the Apes watched them for a while from his lofty perch in the great tree.  The sun was high in the heavens.
But now he heard, outside, the sounds of many voices, and long mournful howls, and mighty wailing.  Had he remained too long? Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street toward the village gate.  The natives were not yet in sight, though he could plainly hear them approaching across the plantation.  They must be very near.  Like a flash he sprang across the opening to the pile of arrows.
Philander were deeply interested in examining the skeletons.  The two larger, they stated, had belonged to a male and female of one of the higher white races.  In a second book which she hurriedly examined was the single name, GREYSTOKE.  Philander was placing the frail bones of the infant in a bit of sail cloth, he examined the skull minutely.  Then he called Professor Porter to his side, and the two argued in low tones for several minutes.
This they buried well up on the island, and for three years they lived there in constant hope of being rescued.  One by one they sickened and died, until only one man was left, the writer of the letter.  He did not mention the mutiny or the chest of buried treasure.  Canler had asked for no security, and you know, dearie, what that will mean for me if papa cannot meet them.  Oh, how I detest that man!  We all tried to look on the bright side of things, but Mr.
Why, then, this hesitancy! Once more he essayed the effort, but a qualm of nausea overwhelmed him.  He did not understand.  Quickly he lowered Kulonga's body to the ground, removed the noose, and took to the trees again.  From a lofty perch Tarzan viewed the village of thatched huts across the intervening plantation.  Tarzan of the Apes was no sentimentalist.
From far in the distance came the faint sound of many guns.  Tarzan and Jane raised their heads.  From the cabin came Mr.  Philander and Esmeralda.  From where Tarzan and the girl stood they could not see the two vessels lying at anchor in the harbor.
For a moment no one noticed Tarzan, sitting silently in his seat.  Clayton was the first to remember, and, turning, held out his hand.  pardon me if I do not speak to you in English.  I am just learning it,  himself.  Clayton started back in surprise.
Surely the men were stupid and ridiculous and cowardly.  Even Manu, the monkey, was more intelligent than they.  If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted.  But the girl, ah--that was a different matter.  He did not reason here.
The village was in an uproar instantly.  Armed men rushed from the interior of many a hut and raced madly across the clearing toward the excited sentry.  After them trooped the old men, and the women and children until, in a moment, the village was deserted.  Quickly and noiselessly he dropped to the ground beside the cauldron of poison.  For a moment he stood motionless, his quick, bright eyes scanning the interior of the palisade.
On, on they came until Kerchak himself slunk stealthily to the very door and peered within.  Behind him were two males, and then Kala, closely straining the little dead form to her breast.  Noiselessly Kerchak entered, crouching for the charge; and then John Clayton rose with a sudden start and faced them.  In the meantime the beasts within the cabin were warily examining the contents of this strange lair.  Presently he halted before the rifle.
Professor Porter deigned to make no response to this puerile inquiry.  Instead he raised his head gently from the ground, nodding it back and forth a half dozen times.  Philander had not moved from where he had fallen; he had not dared the attempt.  brain, superinducing total mental aberration.  Then he sat up and felt of various portions of his anatomy.
He could neither see nor hear any signs of life about him.  At length he fell into a quiet slumber, nor did he awake again until afternoon.  The Frenchman called faintly.  The man turned, and rising, came toward the shelter.  His face was very handsome--the handsomest, thought D'Arnot, that he had ever seen.
Besides it felt so uncomfortable that he quickly decided that he preferred the shame to the discomfort.  It was on a sultry day of the dry season that he and one of his cousins had gone down to the bank to drink.  Tarzan was appalled.  He turned red as he compared it with the beautiful broad nostrils of his companion.  Not thirty paces behind the two she crouched--Sabor, the huge lioness--lashing her tail.
It was on a sultry day of the dry season that he and one of his cousins had gone down to the bank to drink.  Tarzan was appalled.  He turned red as he compared it with the beautiful broad nostrils of his companion.  Not thirty paces behind the two she crouched--Sabor, the huge lioness--lashing her tail.  Cautiously she moved a great padded paw forward, noiselessly placing it before she lifted the next.
The next few minutes the young Englishman never forgot.  Presently they came to the clearing before the beach.  Tarzan was still issuing orders which Clayton could not understand.  Slowly the lioness was emerging from the window.  At last her shoulders were out.
It was a stately and gallant little compliment performed with the grace and dignity of utter unconsciousness of self.  Now, in every fiber of his being, heredity spoke louder than training.  So Tarzan of the Apes did the only thing he knew to assure Jane of her safety.  He removed his hunting knife from its sheath and handed it to her hilt first, again motioning her into the bower.  And thus the rising sun found them in the morning.
Tarzan lifted the latch and pushed the great door in upon its wooden hinges.  It was as they had feared.  The cabin was deserted.  The men turned and looked at one another.  A great bitterness rose in his heart.
Do not forget that we are keeping to the  Clayton smiled and dropped his hand to his side.  Then Clayton stooped and picked it up.  It was a bit of grimy, white paper roughly folded into a ragged square.  Opening it they found a crude message printed almost illegibly, and with many evidences of an unaccustomed task.  The sight which met his eyes confirmed his worst fears.
If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted.  But the girl, ah--that was a different matter.  He did not reason here.  He knew that she was created to be protected, and that he was created to protect her.  He wondered why they had dug a great hole in the ground merely to bury dry bones.
Of medicine or surgery the poor thing knew nothing.  At first Tarzan would eat nothing, but rolled and tossed in a wild delirium of fever.  All he craved was water, and this she brought him in the only way she could, bearing it in her own mouth.  At last the fever abated and the boy commenced to mend.  No word of complaint passed his tight set lips, though the pain of his wounds was excruciating.
With streaming coat tails and shiny silk hat Professor Archimedes Q.  Porter fled through the moonlight close upon the heels of Mr.  It was Tarzan of the Apes who watched, with face a-grin, this odd game of follow-the-leader.  He knew the two men were safe enough from attack in so far as the lion was concerned.  So Tarzan swung quickly to a lower limb in line with the approaching fugitives; and as Mr.
She turned upon him like a tigress, striking his great breast with her tiny hands.  Tarzan could not understand it.  Since then Tarzan of the Apes had felt a warm, lithe form close pressed to his.  Again he laid his hand upon her arm.  Again she repulsed him.
Surely the men were stupid and ridiculous and cowardly.  Even Manu, the monkey, was more intelligent than they.  If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted.  But the girl, ah--that was a different matter.  He did not reason here.
He wondered why they had dug a great hole in the ground merely to bury dry bones.  Surely there was no sense in that; no one wanted to steal dry bones.  Instantly her tears ceased.  And, sure enough, the Arrow was being worked toward the open sea, slowly, through the harbor's entrance.  had not killed him I know that he would have seen that we were properly   Jane looked at her father sadly.
Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her, as had the stalwart forest god.  Did she love him?  She did not know--now.  She glanced at Clayton out of the corner of her eye.  If he should never touch her again, she reasoned, she would never feel attracted toward him.  She had not loved him, then.
He was going, and something told her that it was because he thought her people were in danger.  Again he kissed her.  He was gone--and Jane turned to walk across the clearing to the cabin.  Philander was the first to see her.  Philander was very near sighted.
He tightened his grip upon the protesting professor and increased his speed.  Philander took another hasty glance rearward.  The lion also had quickened his gait, and was doggedly maintaining an unvarying distance behind them.  haste is most unbecoming to men of letters.  What will our friends think of us, who may chance to be upon the street and witness our  Mr.
Across this framework Clayton placed other smaller branches quite close together.  When completed he had a rather snug little nest, to which he carried their blankets and some of the lighter luggage.  For a moment it stood as though listening and then turned slowly, and melted into the shadows of the jungle.  He gathered her in his arms, whispering words of courage and love into her ears.  Clayton lay facing the opening at the front, a rifle and a brace of revolvers at his hand.
She had not loved him, then.  It had been nothing more than a passing hallucination, super-induced by excitement and by personal contact.  Again she glanced at Clayton.  He was very handsome and every inch a gentleman.  She should be very proud of such a husband.
He wrote:   I am Tarzan of the Apes.  We live here together always in my house.  I will bring you the best of fruits, the tenderest deer, the finest meats that roam the jungle.  I will hunt for you.  I am the greatest of the jungle fighters.
He would take a look within, thought Tarzan, and so, cautiously, he approached the low thatched building.  For a moment he stood without, listening intently.  There was no sound, and he glided into the semi-darkness of the interior.  Weapons hung against the walls--long spears, strangely shaped knives, a couple of narrow shields.  Several human skulls lay upon the floor.
A huge black, standing directly before him, lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand.  Struggling and shrieking, his body, rolling from side to side, moved quickly toward the shadows beneath the trees.  The blacks, their eyes protruding in horror, watched spellbound.  D'Arnot was left alone.  As D'Arnot watched the spot where the body had entered the tree he heard the sounds of movement there.
So Tarzan swung quickly to a lower limb in line with the approaching fugitives; and as Mr.  It was the professor who first broke the silence.  As I  garbed in the mantle of virtue.  You have accused me of cowardice.  You have insinuated that you ran only to overtake me, not to escape the clutches of the lion.
I want you to be sure, papa, to indicate all that you can do without until fall.  like this?  You haven't refused to marry me, but you haven't promised either.  I want to get the license tomorrow, so that we can be married quietly before you leave for Wisconsin.  I don't care for any fuss or  The girl turned cold, but she held her head bravely.  She spoke scarcely above a whisper.
High hills shut it off on three sides, the ocean on the fourth.  It was alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes.  Its untouched mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the human beasts beyond its frontier.  At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung, in single file, over the brow of a low hill.  Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and on each breast three concentric circles.
At length he handed it to D'Arnot.  The Frenchman had been watching him, and knew that Tarzan was puzzled over the envelope.  How strange it seemed that to a full-grown white man an envelope was a mystery.  D'Arnot opened it and handed the letter back to Tarzan.  Clayton for the kindness you have shown in permitting us the use of your cabin.
Instead he perched lightly upon a smaller branch twenty feet above the raging captive.  Tarzan was much hurt.  To him life was never monotonous or stale.  Quick was Sabor, the lioness, and quick were Numa and Sheeta, but Tarzan of the Apes was lightning.  With Tantor, the elephant, he made friends.
To see her alive seemed almost unbelievable.  As he approached the cabin he saw Jane coming out.  When she saw him she hurried forward to meet him.  He had never before called her by her given name.  thank you for your chivalrous loyalty to my dear father.
Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her, as had the stalwart forest god.  Did she love him?  She did not know--now.  She glanced at Clayton out of the corner of her eye.  If he should never touch her again, she reasoned, she would never feel attracted toward him.  She had not loved him, then.
No, this could not be Tarzan of the Apes, for it was very evident that he was an utter stranger to English.  Then he left him to follow voluntarily.  Suddenly Clayton heard the faint report of a firearm--a single shot, and then silence.  And now there came the sound of a heavy body brushing against the side of the cabin.  She could hear the great padded paws upon the ground outside.
They ate pleasant fruit and looked into each other's eyes and smiled.  They were very happy, and they were all alone.  Tarzan took the envelope and tore it open.  The message was from D'Arnot.  It read:   Fingerprints prove you Greystoke.
Possibly Ara was a friend with whom the Archer was sharing his food.  All day Tarzan followed Kulonga, hovering above him in the trees like some malign spirit.  Twice more he saw him hurl his arrows of destruction--once at Dango, the hyena, and again at Manu, the monkey.  In each instance the animal died almost instantly, for Kulonga's poison was very fresh and very deadly.  Tarzan thought much on this wondrous method of slaying as he swung slowly along at a safe distance behind his quarry.
The men upon the veranda had sat for an hour, almost in silence.  as Tarzan's savage cry came faintly to their ears.  the gorilla country.  The men crowded about Tarzan with many questions, but his only answer was a laughing depreciation of his feat.  But he was indeed a hero in the eyes of these men--men accustomed to hunting big game.
D'Arnot breathed a sigh of relief, and went about bathing the blood from Tarzan's face.  Soon the cool water revived him, and presently he opened his eyes to look in questioning surprise at D'Arnot.  Tarzan, after reading the message, sat on the edge of the couch and laughed.  D'Arnot handed Tarzan the two messages that had been left for him.  Tarzan read the first one through with a look of sorrow on his face.
As it was drawn up a young officer stepped out.  Clayton told of the abduction of Jane Porter and the need of armed men to aid in the search for her.  Soon the entire party had landed where stood Professor Porter, Mr.  Philander and the weeping Esmeralda.  The commander selected twenty men and two officers, Lieutenant D'Arnot and Lieutenant Charpentier.
She heard a sudden, slight sound behind her.  With a cry she sprang to her feet and turned to face her end.  There stood Tarzan, his arms filled with ripe and luscious fruit.  Jane reeled and would have fallen, had not Tarzan, dropping his burden, caught her in his arms.  She did not lose consciousness, but she clung tightly to him, shuddering and trembling like a frightened deer.
So Tarzan of the Apes did the only thing he knew to assure Jane of her safety.  He removed his hunting knife from its sheath and handed it to her hilt first, again motioning her into the bower.  And thus the rising sun found them in the morning.  Slowly the circumstances of her position crept one by one into her mind.  She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan.
Clayton shook his head.  It was plain to see that a burden had been lifted from their minds.  Six days later Captain Dufranne announced that they would sail early on the morrow.  In spite of herself she began to entertain doubts and fears.  The reasonableness of the arguments of these disinterested French officers commenced to convince her against her will.
Instead, with all the assurance that deductive reasoning from a wrong premise induces in one, Mr.  Philander grasped Professor Archimedes Q.  Jane, turning at the cry, saw the cause of it lying prone upon the floor before them--the whitened skeleton of a man.  A further glance revealed a second skeleton upon the bed.  there was no panic in her fright.
From where Tarzan and the girl stood they could not see the two vessels lying at anchor in the harbor.  Tarzan pointed toward the sounds, touched his breast and pointed again.  He was going, and something told her that it was because he thought her people were in danger.  Again he kissed her.  He was gone--and Jane turned to walk across the clearing to the cabin.
Soon the cool water revived him, and presently he opened his eyes to look in questioning surprise at D'Arnot.  Tarzan, after reading the message, sat on the edge of the couch and laughed.  D'Arnot handed Tarzan the two messages that had been left for him.  Tarzan read the first one through with a look of sorrow on his face.  The second one he turned over and over, searching for an opening--he had never seen a sealed envelope before.
Such a thing was unheard of, and it clouded their superstitious minds with all manner of vague fears.  More often was the tribe of Tarzan disturbed by these wandering huntsmen.  Now was the quiet, fierce solitude of the primeval forest broken by new, strange cries.  No longer was there safety for bird or beast.  With man it is different.
Surely the men were stupid and ridiculous and cowardly.  Even Manu, the monkey, was more intelligent than they.  If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted.  But the girl, ah--that was a different matter.  He did not reason here.
At the instant he fell a remarkable item of natural history leaped to his mind.  If one feigns death lions and lionesses are supposed to ignore one, according to Mr.  Philander's faulty memory.  Philander lay as he had fallen, frozen into the horrid semblance of death.  Jane had been watching his antics in mild-eyed surprise.
At length she gave in from sheer loathing of the continued and hateful importuning.  It was agreed that on the morrow Canler was to drive to town and bring back the license and a minister.  Clayton had wanted to leave as soon as the plan was announced, but the girl's tired, hopeless look kept him.  He could not desert her.  Something might happen yet, he tried to console himself by thinking.
Clayton and papa and Mr.  Clayton in the back, received a spear in his shoulder from some unseen hand in the jungle.  Philander says that we can exist indefinitely on the wild fruit and nuts which abound in the jungle.  I am very tired now, so I shall go to my funny bed of grasses which Mr.  Clayton gathered for me, but will add to this from day to day as things happen.
With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair, but suddenly he relaxed and dropped back, smiling.  D'Arnot looked at him in surprise.  those fingerprints lay in the cabin of his father, and that all my life  The policeman looked up in astonishment.  Tarzan nodded his head.  For some time they stood there gazing out upon the busy throng beneath, each wrapped in his own thoughts.
answered, his face drawn with fatigue and the sorrow he felt for poor D'Arnot and he emphasized the word before.  The girl's head went high.  Then he wrote upon a piece of paper and shoved it beneath the partition.  MY DEAR MISS PORTER:  I had no reason to insinuate what I did.  My only excuse is that my nerves must be unstrung--which is no excuse at all.
The deluge came--all hell broke loose upon the jungle.  The tribe shivering from the cold rain, huddled at the bases of great trees.  For hours the fury of the storm continued without surcease, and still the tribe huddled close in shivering fear.  The end was as sudden as the beginning.  The wind ceased, the sun shone forth--nature smiled once more.
Tarzan was not particularly interested in the men, however, so he sought the other window.  How beautiful her features!  How delicate her snowy skin!  She was writing at Tarzan's own table beneath the window.  Upon a pile of grasses at the far side of the room lay the Negress asleep.  For an hour Tarzan feasted his eyes upon her while she wrote.  At length she arose, leaving her manuscript upon the table.
Each man carrying a rifle and ammunition, beside bedding and some food and cooking utensils.  The latter seemed to Tarzan a most useless encumbrance, so he threw his away.  For a month they traveled north.  Sometimes finding food in plenty and again going hungry for days.  They saw no signs of natives nor were they molested by wild beasts.
which have just transpired.  By what right, sir, did you interfere between my daughter and Mr.  Canler--she does not wish to marry him.  suffer, Professor Porter, for you will be able to pay the Canler person     to whom it belonged.  I saw the sailors bury it, and, ape-like, I had to dig it up and bury it again elsewhere.
She is not dead then?  Where was she?  What happened to her?   She is not dead.  None in all the jungle may face Tarzan of the Apes in battle, and live.  I am Tarzan of the Apes--mighty fighter.  D'Arnot wrote:   I am glad she is safe.  It pains me to write, I will rest a while.
If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted.  But the girl, ah--that was a different matter.  He did not reason here.  He knew that she was created to be protected, and that he was created to protect her.  He wondered why they had dug a great hole in the ground merely to bury dry bones.
He now drew up its mate and stretched it forth again.  With infinite solicitude Professor Porter wiggled his right arm--joy! It was intact.  Breathlessly he waved his left arm above his prostrate body--it waved!   excited tone.  Professor Porter deigned to make no response to this puerile inquiry.  Instead he raised his head gently from the ground, nodding it back and forth a half dozen times.
There was no sound, and he glided into the semi-darkness of the interior.  Weapons hung against the walls--long spears, strangely shaped knives, a couple of narrow shields.  Several human skulls lay upon the floor.  Tarzan of the Apes felt of each article, hefted the spears, smelled of nostrils.  As he took each article from the walls, he placed it in a pile in the center of the room.
The bullet had struck a glancing blow upon the skull.  There was an ugly flesh wound, but no signs of a fracture of the skull.  D'Arnot breathed a sigh of relief, and went about bathing the blood from Tarzan's face.  Soon the cool water revived him, and presently he opened his eyes to look in questioning surprise at D'Arnot.  Tarzan, after reading the message, sat on the edge of the couch and laughed.
After examining D'Arnot's wounds the man left the shelter and disappeared.  In half an hour he was back with fruit and a hollow gourd-like vegetable filled with water.  D'Arnot drank and ate a little.  He was surprised that he had no fever.  Again he tried to converse with his strange nurse, but the attempt was useless.
It can do no worse, at any rate, than to leave it still a mystery.  Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her, as had the stalwart forest god.  Did she love him?  She did not know--now.  She glanced at Clayton out of the corner of her eye.  If he should never touch her again, she reasoned, she would never feel attracted toward him.
I have always the feeling   relief marking his voice.  hanging about for months.  Wisconsin which her mother left her.  made a living from it, and been able to send Jane a trifle beside, each year.  She is planning on our going up there the first of the week.
More often was the tribe of Tarzan disturbed by these wandering huntsmen.  Now was the quiet, fierce solitude of the primeval forest broken by new, strange cries.  No longer was there safety for bird or beast.  With man it is different.  They flee man as man flees a pestilence.
So Tarzan of the Apes did the only thing he knew to assure Jane of her safety.  He removed his hunting knife from its sheath and handed it to her hilt first, again motioning her into the bower.  And thus the rising sun found them in the morning.  Slowly the circumstances of her position crept one by one into her mind.  She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan.
Two of their number had gone down before the captain's revolver.  They lay where they had fallen between the combatants.  The captain had emptied his revolver and was reloading as the charge was made.  Before the officers had taken a dozen backward steps the men were upon them.  As he turned to descend the ladder he was surprised to see his wife standing on the steps almost at his side.
Here is what he read:  WEST COAST OF AFRICA, ABOUT 10 DEGREES SOUTH LATITUDE.  ) February 3 (?), 1909.  As you know, we were supposed to have set out upon a scientific expedition to the Congo.  But after we were well under sail the truth came out.  This they buried well up on the island, and for three years they lived there in constant hope of being rescued.
Philander to regain the balance which the sudden fright had so perilously endangered.  Unfortunately for them both, Mr.  At length Professor Porter made an attempt to move one leg.  To his surprise, it responded to his will as in days gone by.  He now drew up its mate and stretched it forth again.
Slowly Esmeralda opened her eyes.  She saw the jungle about her.  By this time Professor Porter and Mr.  Philander had come up.  we look?  God could not have been so cruel as to take my little girl  roughly by the shoulder.
So, early one morning, he set forth alone upon his quest.  He had in mind that no more would he run from the wanton attacks of old Tublat.  In another moment he was at the cabin, and after a short time had again thrown the latch and entered.  Among the other books were a primer, some child's readers, numerous picture books, and a great dictionary.  Beneath the picture were three little bugs--  BOY.
to-morrow, as soon as it is light, I shall take what food I can carry and continue the search until I have found Jane.  I will not return  His companions did not reply at once.  At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter's bent old shoulder.  Jane is beyond human assistance now.  What was once my dear little girl shall not lie alone and friendless in the awful jungle.
the fangs of a greater!  Do mighty fighters fly to the trees at the challenge of his kind.  Quietly Tarzan dropped to the ground.  Breathlessly the tribe watched from their lofty perches as Kerchak, still roaring, charged the relatively puny figure.  Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs.  His enormous shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles.
We must leave room for the thumb and the fingers of the left hand.  Tarzan complied readily, asking many questions of the officer during the operation.  I should hate to trust its findings further than to differentiate between individuals.  There it is absolute.  No two people born into the world probably have ever had identical lines upon all their digits.
They lay where they had fallen between the combatants.  The captain had emptied his revolver and was reloading as the charge was made.  Before the officers had taken a dozen backward steps the men were upon them.  As he turned to descend the ladder he was surprised to see his wife standing on the steps almost at his side.  With equal heartlessness they disposed of their own dead and dying.
Philander had been there.  sinking within her as she realized the probable size of the expenditure that had been made.  Philander and I found.  It was so little when I would like to do so much, Jane.  disgrace myself by such a bargain with any man, I prefer that it be one I already despise.
Let us at least  man to convince, but when once convinced my decision is unalterable.  Again he beckoned to them; but still they stood in argument.  Presently the ape-man lost patience with their stupid ignorance.  He grasped the frightened Mr.  Then Tarzan set off toward the north, leading the now thoroughly frightened professor and his secretary.
The face above her was one of extraordinary beauty.  A perfect type of the strongly masculine, unmarred by dissipation, or brutal or degrading passions.  When Tarzan killed he more often smiled than scowled, and smiles are the foundation of beauty.  As she lay more quietly in his arms Tarzan slightly relaxed his grip upon her.  As Tarzan moved steadily onward his mind was occupied with many strange and new thoughts.
Tarzan watched the graceful movements of the ship in rapt admiration, and longed to be aboard her.  The ship came about, and presently he knew that she was beating back toward land.  A man at the bows was constantly heaving into the sea a rope to the end of which a small object was fastened.  Tarzan wondered what the purpose of this action might be.  At last the ship came up directly into the wind; the anchor was lowered; down came the sails.
Up, up he went to the waving pinnacle of a lofty monarch of the forest where his heavy pursuer dared not follow him.  There he perched, hurling taunts and insults at the raging, foaming beast fifty feet below him.  And then Tublat went mad.  In the brilliant moonlight Tarzan witnessed the whole mad carnival of rage.  He saw the females and the young scamper to the safety of the trees.
For a moment no one noticed Tarzan, sitting silently in his seat.  Clayton was the first to remember, and, turning, held out his hand.  pardon me if I do not speak to you in English.  I am just learning it,  himself.  Clayton started back in surprise.
I have always the feeling   relief marking his voice.  hanging about for months.  Wisconsin which her mother left her.  made a living from it, and been able to send Jane a trifle beside, each year.  She is planning on our going up there the first of the week.
Tarzan of the Apes felt of each article, hefted the spears, smelled of nostrils.  As he took each article from the walls, he placed it in a pile in the center of the room.  Then he stood back, surveyed his work, and grinned.  Tarzan of the Apes enjoyed a joke.  But now he heard, outside, the sounds of many voices, and long mournful howls, and mighty wailing.
Quickly he ran to the cupboard and searched in the far recess of the lower shelf.  The photograph of the smiling, strong-faced young man, and the little black puzzle book were safe.  What was that?  His quick ear had caught a faint but unfamiliar sound.  Soon he saw many people clambering over the sides of the larger vessel and dropping into the boats.  They were coming back in full force.
The face above her was one of extraordinary beauty.  A perfect type of the strongly masculine, unmarred by dissipation, or brutal or degrading passions.  When Tarzan killed he more often smiled than scowled, and smiles are the foundation of beauty.  As she lay more quietly in his arms Tarzan slightly relaxed his grip upon her.  As Tarzan moved steadily onward his mind was occupied with many strange and new thoughts.
They were always of her now.  He wondered if she would fear him, and the thought all but caused him to relinquish his plan.  The ape-man knew no god, but he was as near to worshipping his divinity as mortal man ever comes to worship.  He wrote:   I am Tarzan of the Apes.  We live here together always in my house.
It was on this sight that Jane Porter again opened her eyes.  When Clayton heard the report of the firearm he fell into an agony of fear and apprehension.  Perhaps even now she was attempting to defend herself against some savage man or beast.  The next few minutes the young Englishman never forgot.  Presently they came to the clearing before the beach.
haste is most unbecoming to men of letters.  What will our friends think of us, who may chance to be upon the street and witness our  Mr.  Philander stole another observation astern.  The lion was bounding along in easy leaps scarce five paces behind.  With streaming coat tails and shiny silk hat Professor Archimedes Q.
And again he drew back his shaft.  MON DIEU! but you have much to learn.  I will have my hands full keeping your neck from beneath the  Tarzan lowered his bow and smiled.  yet not kill them here.  Presently one of the blacks looked up, and beholding Tarzan, turned, shrieking, toward the palisade.
I found a note you wrote me lying among the leaves beneath a tree near the cabin.  But know that I am always your friend, JANE PORTER.  Tarzan sat with gaze fixed upon the floor for nearly an hour.  It was evident to him from the notes that they did not know that he and Tarzan of the Apes were one and the same.  D'Arnot extinguished the lamp, and lay down upon the cot.
He was surprised that he had no fever.  Again he tried to converse with his strange nurse, but the attempt was useless.  D'Arnot was astonished to see, in plain print-like characters, a message in English:   I am Tarzan of the Apes.  Who are you?  Can you read this language?   D'Arnot seized the pencil--then he stopped.  This strange man wrote English--evidently he was an Englishman.
At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung, in single file, over the brow of a low hill.  Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and on each breast three concentric circles.  In the rear were a hundred warriors, similar in all respects to the advance guard.  Here there were no white men, no soldiers, nor any rubber or ivory to be gathered for cruel and thankless taskmasters.  Several moons passed by ere the blacks ventured far into the territory surrounding their new village.
clutching frantically at Mr.  Philander to regain the balance which the sudden fright had so perilously endangered.  Unfortunately for them both, Mr.  At length Professor Porter made an attempt to move one leg.  To his surprise, it responded to his will as in days gone by.
She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan.  He was gone; but this time no fear assailed her for she knew that he would return.  In the grass at the entrance to her bower she saw the imprint of his body where he had lain all night to guard her.  She knew that the fact that he had been there was all that had permitted her to sleep in such peaceful security.  Even the lions and panthers had no fears for her now.
Nowhere was there evidence of a man tilling the fields or performing any of the homely duties of the village.  Finally his eyes rested upon a woman directly beneath him.  Before her was a small cauldron standing over a low fire and in it bubbled a thick, reddish, tarry mass.  Tarzan of the Apes was fascinated.  Here was the secret of the terrible destructiveness of The Archer's tiny missiles.
clouded by a frown of worry and indecision.  can't venture into the jungle with me; yet someone must go in search of your father.  He is more than apt to wandering off aimlessly, regardless of danger or direction, and Mr.  Philander is only a trifle less impractical than he.  There is only one way to keep him in safety, and that is to chain him to a tree.
Philander were immersed in an absorbing discussion of some weighty scientific problem.  On and on they came.  Soon the flames had spanned the road to the south and cut off Canler's return.  Suddenly, out of the northeast, a great black car came careening down the road.  With a jolt it stopped before the cottage, and a black-haired giant leaped out to run up onto the porch.
Had he remained too long? Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street toward the village gate.  The natives were not yet in sight, though he could plainly hear them approaching across the plantation.  They must be very near.  Like a flash he sprang across the opening to the pile of arrows.  The natives filed up the street, four of them bearing the dead body of Kulonga.
It but grazed her side.  With a cry of rage and pain the she-ape turned upon her tormentor.  As she charged, Kulonga unslung his bow and fitted an arrow with almost unthinkable quickness.  Drawing the shaft far back he drove the poisoned missile straight into the heart of the great anthropoid.  With a horrid scream Kala plunged forward upon her face before the astonished members of her tribe.
Professor Archimedes Q.  Porter fidgeted in his armchair.  The subject always made him uncomfortable.  He could not understand why.  Canler was a splendid match.
In them, too, was greed for the toothsome dainty the boy carried.  Up, up he went to the waving pinnacle of a lofty monarch of the forest where his heavy pursuer dared not follow him.  There he perched, hurling taunts and insults at the raging, foaming beast fifty feet below him.  And then Tublat went mad.  In the brilliant moonlight Tarzan witnessed the whole mad carnival of rage.
And Professor Porter and Mr.  The party now entered the modest little hostelry, where Clayton soon made arrangements for their entertainment.  I had hoped, er--I had thought or--er--how very happy  often admonished my pupils to count ten before speaking.  Philander, I should count at least a thousand, and then maintain a   Jane blanched.  Clayton moved uneasily in his chair.
Tarzan knew what the result would be.  In an instant the neck would break.  Then there came to Terkoz's rescue the same thing that had put him in these sore straits--a man's reasoning power.  the jungle there is none so great.  no more with your king or your people, for next time I shall kill you.
The morning after the Dum-Dum the tribe started slowly back through the forest toward the coast.  The body of Tublat lay where it had fallen, for the people of Kerchak do not eat their own dead.  The march was but a leisurely search for food.  The nuts they cracked between their powerful jaws, or, if too hard, broke by pounding between stones.  He hurled a pineapple at the ancient enemy of his people.
This notice he stuck upon the door with a small sharp splinter of wood.  When the two boats were beached upon the silvery sand it was a strange assortment of humanity that clambered ashore.  Some twenty souls in all there were, fifteen of them rough and villainous appearing seamen.  The others of the party were of different stamp.  One was an elderly man, with white hair and large rimmed spectacles.
Quickly and noiselessly he dropped to the ground beside the cauldron of poison.  For a moment he stood motionless, his quick, bright eyes scanning the interior of the palisade.  No one was in sight.  His eyes rested upon the open doorway of a nearby hut.  He would take a look within, thought Tarzan, and so, cautiously, he approached the low thatched building.
can't venture into the jungle with me; yet someone must go in search of your father.  He is more than apt to wandering off aimlessly, regardless of danger or direction, and Mr.  Philander is only a trifle less impractical than he.  There is only one way to keep him in safety, and that is to chain him to a tree.  The poor dear is SO    this cabin while I am searching for your father and Mr.
Possibly, too, he thought, the professor and Philander might have returned to camp.  Yes, that was more than likely.  At least he would return and see, before he continued what seemed to be a most fruitless quest.  Nor was he following the trail of the old men.  That, they had crossed and left long since, though it had been fresh and plain before Tarzan's eyes.
Nearer and nearer it approached, mounting louder and louder in volume.  The great trees bent in unison as though pressed earthward by a mighty hand.  Then, suddenly, the jungle giants whipped back, lashing their mighty tops in angry and deafening protest.  A vivid and blinding light flashed from the whirling, inky clouds above.  The deep cannonade of roaring thunder belched forth its fearsome challenge.
Slowly she turned and walked back to the cabin.  She tried to imagine her wood-god by her side in the saloon of an ocean liner.  She saw him as she introduced him to her friends--uncouth, illiterate--a boor; and the girl winced.  She drew it out, holding it in the palm of her hand for a moment with tear-blurred eyes bent upon it.  Then she raised it to her lips, and crushing it there buried her face in the soft ferns, sobbing.
He had again been gathering fruit and this he laid at the entrance of her bower.  Once more they sat down together to eat.  Jane commenced to wonder what his plans were.  She could not understand it.  When they had finished their breakfast Tarzan went to her bower and recovered his knife.
Philander's faulty memory.  Philander lay as he had fallen, frozen into the horrid semblance of death.  Jane had been watching his antics in mild-eyed surprise.  Now she laughed--a little choking gurgle of a laugh; but it was enough.  Philander rolled over upon his side and peered about.
Before she could reach them, however, Clayton had jumped to Tarzan's side and attempted to drag Canler from his grasp.  The grasp upon Canler's throat relaxed.  Tarzan looked down into the beautiful face before him.  Tarzan removed his hand from Canler's throat.  Canler, gasping for breath, nodded.
The long bow which had been Kulonga's hung over his left shoulder.  A personification, was Tarzan of the Apes, of the primitive man, the hunter, the warrior.  But of these things Tarzan did not think.  And so he learned to shave--rudely and painfully, it is true--but, nevertheless, effectively.  Tarzan took to the trees in pursuit, and in a few moments came in view of the men desperately striving to escape.
I should hate to trust its findings further than to differentiate between individuals.  There it is absolute.  No two people born into the world probably have ever had identical lines upon all their digits.  Tarzan looked at the book in surprise.  How did D'Arnot come to have his book?  Presently D'Arnot stopped at a page on which were five tiny little smudges.
A moment more and both shoulders through, the long, sinuous body and the narrow hips would glide quickly after.  It was on this sight that Jane Porter again opened her eyes.  When Clayton heard the report of the firearm he fell into an agony of fear and apprehension.  Perhaps even now she was attempting to defend herself against some savage man or beast.  The next few minutes the young Englishman never forgot.
No word of complaint passed his tight set lips, though the pain of his wounds was excruciating.  A portion of his chest was laid bare to the ribs, three of which had been broken by the mighty blows of the gorilla.  Also, he was anxious to return to the cabin and continue his investigations of its wondrous contents.  So, early one morning, he set forth alone upon his quest.  He had in mind that no more would he run from the wanton attacks of old Tublat.
There is another I should like to thank also, but he did not come back, though I cannot believe that he is dead.  I do not know his name.  He is the great white giant who wore the diamond locket upon his breast.  I found a note you wrote me lying among the leaves beneath a tree near the cabin.  But know that I am always your friend, JANE PORTER.
If for Snipes, then our ape friend is a friend indeed.  something in that jungle, and it's armed, whatever it is.  clouded by a frown of worry and indecision.  can't venture into the jungle with me; yet someone must go in search of your father.  He is more than apt to wandering off aimlessly, regardless of danger or direction, and Mr.
three weeks upon the march.  Why, Sabor, single handed, could exterminate a thousand  D'Arnot laughed.  and navies, its great cities, and its mighty engineering works.  But Kerchak could never think far enough ahead to take advantage of any such opportunity.  Even Kala, my mother, could never plan ahead.
With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair, but suddenly he relaxed and dropped back, smiling.  D'Arnot looked at him in surprise.  those fingerprints lay in the cabin of his father, and that all my life  The policeman looked up in astonishment.  Tarzan nodded his head.  For some time they stood there gazing out upon the busy throng beneath, each wrapped in his own thoughts.
I will bring you the best of fruits, the tenderest deer, the finest meats that roam the jungle.  I will hunt for you.  I am the greatest of the jungle fighters.  I will fight for you.  I am the mightiest of the jungle fighters.
That night Kulonga slept in the crotch of a mighty tree and far above him crouched Tarzan of the Apes.  When Kulonga awoke he found that his bow and arrows had disappeared.  The black warrior was furious and frightened, but more frightened than furious.  Kulonga was panic-stricken.  His only hope lay in reaching the village of Mbonga as quickly as his legs would carry him.
Possibly it contained word that his people had but left the beach temporarily.  Very respectfully, WM.  An hour later he started up listening.  Something was at the door trying to enter.  D'Arnot reached for the loaded rifle and placed it to his shoulder.
Tarzan, after reading the message, sat on the edge of the couch and laughed.  D'Arnot handed Tarzan the two messages that had been left for him.  Tarzan read the first one through with a look of sorrow on his face.  The second one he turned over and over, searching for an opening--he had never seen a sealed envelope before.  At length he handed it to D'Arnot.
With Tantor, the elephant, he made friends.  At eighteen he read fluently and understood nearly all he read in the many and varied volumes on the shelves.  High hills shut it off on three sides, the ocean on the fourth.  It was alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes.  Its untouched mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the human beasts beyond its frontier.
For a week they did little but rest, D'Arnot coaching Tarzan in French.  At the end of that time the two men could converse quite easily.  One night, as they were sitting within the cabin before retiring, Tarzan turned to D'Arnot.  D'Arnot pointed toward the northwest.  D'Arnot shook his head.
