A blow from Three Eagles knocked him backward to the land.
A boat was lowered, and in it a great chest was placed.
About her was the waving foliage of the forest.
About his neck hung the golden chain from which depended the diamond encrusted locket of his mother, the Lady Alice.
About noon Jane started off for a walk.
About the neck of each dog he had fastened a leather thong.
A boy was chopping frozen moose-meat with an axe, and the chips were flying in the snow.
A change in the battle crushed him under both their bodies and wrenched loose his hold.
A circle of the gleaming eyes had drawn about their camp.
A club might have stopped White Fang, but not a whip.
A colossal and formless something was rushing across the field of his vision.
A companionship did exist between White Fang and the other dogs, but it was one of warfare and enmity.
A copper anklet also took his fancy, and this he transferred to his own leg.
A couple of bounds, a flash of teeth and a frightened squawk, and he had scooped in the adventurous fowl.
Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and on each breast three concentric circles.
Across this framework Clayton placed other smaller branches quite close together.
A cry of startled admiration went up.
A cry went up within the palisade.
Adjusting his spectacles he looked for a moment at the placard and then, turning away, strolled   thousand pardons.
A dozen dead and dying men rolled hither and thither upon the pitching deck, the living intermingled with the dead.
A feud, ages old, was between them, and she, for one, would see to it that he was reminded.
A few minutes later the remainder of the tribe, strung out as it was on the march, trailed in.
A flush of angry blood pervaded Bill's face.
After a few days, sober and bankrupt, Grey Beaver departed up the Porcupine on his long journey to the Mackenzie.
After a few hours of waiting, when daylight had come, the audience and the dog with which he was to fight arrived.
After a few minutes, by the time the white men had got over their surprise, the gang scattered.
After a long time, the god got up and went into the cabin.
After a searching scrutiny, the animal trotted forward a few steps.
After a time, he left Kiche's side and crawled cautiously toward the wall of the nearest tepee.
After a time it became his occupation.
After a time, Matt returned.
After a time, the ptarmigan ceased her struggling.
After a time the she-wolf began to grow restless.
After a time the voices died away, and some time after that he crept out to enjoy the success of his undertaking.
After a time, White Fang heard strange noises approaching.
After examining D'Arnot's wounds the man left the shelter and disappeared.
After several experiences, White Fang never stopped without orders.
After that he left that part of the country and journeyed over to the valley wherein he had been born.
After that he mourned gently when the gods were around.
After that he recoiled from hurt because he _knew_ that it was hurt.
After that he sat up and gazed about him, as might the first man of the earth who landed upon Mars.
After that, the she-wolf in her hunting avoided the left fork.
After that they ran side by side, like good friends who have come to an understanding.
After that they threw stones no more, and White Fang understood and was satisfied.
After the beating, White Fang was dragged back to the fort.
After them trooped the old men, and the women and children until, in a moment, the village was deserted.
After these came a huge Negress clothed like Solomon as to colors.
After this, Jim Hall went to live in the incorrigible cell.
A full stomach conduces to inaction, and the cub lay in the cave, sleeping against his mother's side.
A further glance revealed a second skeleton upon the bed.
Again, and this time with purpose, did Grey Beaver kick him.
Again D'Arnot smiled and shook his head.
Again did Tarzan feast well, but this time he did not sleep.
Again he awakened, a little later, though it seemed hours to him.
Again he beckoned to them; but still they stood in argument.
Again he commanded White Fang to go home.
Again he kissed her.
Again he laid his hand upon her arm.
Again he refused to take it from the hand, and again it was tossed to him.
Again he tried to converse with his strange nurse, but the attempt was useless.
Again he yielded to the tying of a thong around his neck by Grey Beaver, and again Beauty Smith came to claim him.
Again she glanced at Clayton.
Again she repulsed him.
Against the long canines of the ape was pitted the thin blade of the man's knife.
Again the man nodded his head, his face distorted by fear of the death that had been so close.
Again they stopped--beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now glued themselves.
Again they were silent for a time.
Again, when he was weak, it was his luck that none of the larger preying animals chanced upon him.
A gaping throat explained the manner of his death.
A gentle scratching sound was heard on the door.
A glance within confirmed their worst fears.
A gloomy breakfast was eaten, and the four remaining dogs were harnessed to the sled.
A great awe descended upon him.
A great bitterness rose in his heart.
A great fear came upon him.
A great throng of women and children rushed out to meet the party.
A hawk, driving down out of the blue, had barely missed him.
A heavy price of gold was upon his head.
Ah, here was a new game, a fine game, thought Tarzan, and immediately he attempted to repeat the trick.
Ah, he thought, but they do want it.
Ah, he was not quite too late!  Or, was he?  He could not tell.
Ah, they were his old friends, but badly crippled.
A huge black, standing directly before him, lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand.
All but White Fang was averse to friendship.
All day Tarzan followed Kulonga, hovering above him in the trees like some malign spirit.
All eyes turned toward Jane, awaiting her reply.
All eyes were fixed upon the thrilling spectacle at the stake.
All gazed in consternation at it for an instant, and then, with one accord, broke and ran for their huts.
All he asked of other dogs was to be let alone.
All he craved was water, and this she brought him in the only way she could, bearing it in her own mouth.
All he had to do, when the strange dogs came ashore, was to show himself.
All her suspicions were justified.
All his days White Fang had foraged among the live things for food.
All his life he had disliked children.
All his weight was on one foot, and he was in a state of unstable equilibrium.
All intelligence was gone.
All life likes power, and Beauty Smith was no exception.
All nature waited--but not for long.
All night he ran, blundering in the darkness into mishaps and obstacles that delayed but did not daunt.
All night, with burning brands, he fought off the hungry pack.
All of them would spring upon the hated leader only to find the tables turned.
All of which is neither here nor there.
All of which served to make White Fang's days enjoyable.
All other animals lived in the Wild, and were, when not too formidable, lawful spoil for any dog.
All Sierra Vista was gathered around.
All tense and trembling with eagerness and desire, he mastered his instinct and stood still.
All that saved White Fang from death was the loose skin of his neck and the thick fur that covered it.
All the fighting blood of his breed was up in him and surging through him.
All the ghosts of the past arose and were with him.
All the gods started up the steps to enter the house.
All the hours of his short life he had depended upon her.
All the old memories and associations died down again and passed into the grave from which they had been resurrected.
All the wastage of meat, such as the frozen chips, belonged to the dog that found it.
All the young dogs followed Lip-lip's lead.
All this the two men saw in the first instant.
All this was a matter of development, and took time.
All this was a spur to her, pricking her to retaliation.
All this was the manifestation of power.
All three faced him.
All too quickly, far more quickly than he had expected, it happened.
All were silent for a moment, and then Jane spoke.
All worked well, but there came a time when he fastened the pine- knot insecurely.
A log fell apart with a loud spluttering noise.
Already the canoes were departing, and some had disappeared down the river.
Also a low growl rumbled in his throat as warning that he was not to be trifled with.
Also, he appreciated the power with which they administered the law.
Also, he forgot to be afraid.
Also, he had once nearly had an eye poked out by a toddling papoose.
Also, he held White Fang's nose down to the slain hens, and at the same time cuffed him soundly.
Also, he learned that but brief time elapsed between his sounding of the alarm and Grey Beaver coming to his aid.
Also he learned the value of surprise.
Also, he must watch out for the live things.
Also, he was anxious to return to the cabin and continue his investigations of its wondrous contents.
Also, he was desperate.
Also, in writing to his employer, Matt devoted a postscript to White Fang.
Also, it looked as solid as the earth, but was without any solidity at all.
Also, its appearance had changed.
Also, it seemed to him that the fort was besieged by wolves.
Also, live things when they were large enough, could give hurt.
Also, the dogs ate one another, and also the gods ate the dogs.
Also, their effect was irritating, for Cherokee began to growl, very softly, deep down in his throat.
Also, they feared him.
Also, this live thing was meat.
Also to be reckoned with, was the immediateness of his attack.
Also White Fang had early come to differentiate between the family and the servants of the household.
Always he was on the lookout for the trail of the gods where it might leave the river and proceed inland.
Always, in the beginning, before his conscious life dawned, he had crawled toward the mouth of the cave.
Always, when hardest pressed for food, he found something to kill.
A lynx's lair is not despoiled with impunity.
A mad rush of anger sent him leaping in amongst the combatants.
A man and a woman approached the master.
A man at the bows was constantly heaving into the sea a rope to the end of which a small object was fastened.
A man's voice screamed once in horror and anguish.
A moment later he was inside the house, and the slaughter began.
A moment later he was straying away again from his mother.
A moment later, Matt heard a footstep.
A moment later the passenger was entering the library of the old home.
A moment more and both shoulders through, the long, sinuous body and the narrow hips would glide quickly after.
Among the other books were a primer, some child's readers, numerous picture books, and a great dictionary.
Among these were some pencils.
Among the tribe he no longer had friends as of old.
Among those circling futilely the outskirts of the banqueters was old Tublat.
A mysterious change had taken place--so mysterious a change that he was shocked wider awake.
An' after that  roughly.
An atmosphere of loneliness pervaded the spot, which caught suddenly at both men as they strode toward the cabin.
And about the meat there seemed nothing wrong.
And after several such adventures, he left the walls alone.
And again he drew back his shaft.
And all the time she was making outcry and striking with her free wing, while feathers were flying like a snow-fall.
And all the way Kala carried her little dead baby hugged closely to her breast.
And all the while the she-wolf sat on her haunches and smiled.
And always he had a sharp and covetous eye for White Fang.
And at the last minute she left a message for him, to be transmitted by Tarzan of the Apes.
And because of all this, he carried himself more boldly, with a touch of defiance that was new in him.
And before more than one of the grown dogs White Fang's snarl enabled him to beat an honourable retreat.
And by this ascertained standard, White Fang treated them accordingly.
And certainly it was he that caused the mother the most trouble in keeping her litter from the mouth of the cave.
And day by day his strength was increasing.
And different was the method of driving the dogs.
And don't forget what I told you about  White Fang received the nursing.
And during all this time free licence had been theirs, from their masters, to kill the things of the Wild.
And even as they eased him down upon the blankets his snores were rising on the frosty air.
And ever the light grew brighter.
And every day thereafter found him out and ranging a wider area.
And every time the hand descended, the ears flattened down and a cavernous growl surged in his throat.
And far to the east Tarzan of the Apes was speeding through the middle terrace back to his tribe.
And, first, last, and most of all, he hated Beauty Smith.
And from the safety of his overhanging limb the ape-child sent back the fearsome answer of his kind.
And furthermore, he himself was free.
And he did it so quickly that the boy did not know either.
And he felt shame that the man-animals should be laughing at him.
And he, for all his grey years and sage experience, behaved quite as puppyishly and even a little more foolishly.
And he knew that he would find them by the great post in the center of Mbonga village.
And he realized all this without malice or hatred.
And here, confined, hidden from view all except his ears, no longer growling, he continued to nudge and snuggle.
And here, in the Klondike, the leader was indeed the leader.
And here, in this inferno of luggage, was White Fang deserted by the master.
And here John, Lord Greystoke, and Lady Alice, his wife, vanished from the eyes and from the knowledge of men.
And here was where the difference came in.
And he was the food they were to eat!  He wondered how and when the meal would begin.
)  And his carelessness might have been due to the familiarity of the trail to the pool.
And in his own dim way he learned the law of meat.
And in spite of the assuring voice, the hand inspired distrust.
And in that moment the sapling reared its slender length upright and the rabbit soared dancing in the air again.
And in the business of love the three-year-old, who had made this his first adventure upon it, yielded up his life.
And in the meanwhile, the she-wolf, the cause of it all, sat down contentedly on her haunches and watched.
And in this his brothers and sisters were one with him.
And I rather fancy the first step to that end should be to go to our cabin and look over my revolvers.
And it _was_ a beating.
And it was all for him.
And it was he that first gripped another cub by the ear and pulled and tugged and growled through jaws tight-clenched.
And it was he who increased the pace when he sighted the she-wolf, now trotting slowly across the snow.
And it would have gone hard with him had not Collie appeared on the scene.
And Jim Hall, on the other hand, did not know that Judge Scott was merely ignorant.
And, like all succeeding wolves and wild dogs that had done likewise, White Fang worked the covenant out for himself.
And love was the plummet dropped down into the deeps of him where like had never gone.
and navies, its great cities, and its mighty engineering works.
And never did it flag in its pursuit of him.
And never had the white men seemed such marvellous gods as now, when he trod the slimy pavement of San Francisco.
And none of them knew how to fight.
And not for nothing had he learned to walk softly when superior strength went by.
And not for nothing had his puppyhood been made bitter by the persecution of Lip-lip and the whole puppy pack.
And not only did he outrun them, but, circling widely back on his track, he gathered in one of his exhausted pursuers.
And now, for Jane Porter, the reaction came, and she threw herself upon the bench, sobbing with hysterical laughter.
And now he had discovered in the text upon the page that these three were repeated many times in the same sequence.
And now there came the sound of a heavy body brushing against the side of the cabin.
And, once declared against him, they found good reason to continue declared against him.
And on still another day two dogs were set against him at the same time.
And on the part of White Fang it required nothing less than a revolution.
And out of this classification arose the law.
And outside he went, like a king, with all Sierra Vista about him and tending on him.
And Professor Porter and Mr.
And responsive out of his deeps had come the new thing--love.
And right here Baseek erred.
and rubbed the flattening ears.
and shaking her roughly.
And she had found him, or what remained of him, at the end of the trail.
And since he had not taken him with him before, so, now, he could look to be left behind.
And so, as he abandoned his rush at her and braced himself to avoid the contact, she sprang upon him.
And, so--as Nature forgot, her children forgot also.
And so, because he needed a god and because he preferred Weedon Scott to Beauty Smith, White Fang remained.
And so he learned to read.
And so he learned to shave--rudely and painfully, it is true--but, nevertheless, effectively.
And so it came that he learned there were gods and gods.
And so it was with White Fang.
And sometimes the young leader on the left whirled, too.
And so was recorded the second epitaph in two days.
And so with White Fang.
And still she did not move.
And still the bull-dog, with grim certitude, toiled after him.
And such a piece of meat was of value.
And, sure enough, the Arrow was being worked toward the open sea, slowly, through the harbor's entrance.
And Tarzan?  He did what no red-blooded man needs lessons in doing.
And the cub felt that somehow he had escaped a great hurt.
And the Frenchman?  D'Arnot?  What of him?  He could get along as Tarzan had.
And the men went early to bed, Bill first seeing to it that the dogs were tied out of gnawing-reach of one another.
And then, across the narrow oblong box, each nodded to the other.
And then, blind and reeling, he followed at Beauty Smith's heels back to the fort.
And then Clayton saw an incredible thing.
And the next day found them still running.
And then he awoke to find the howling real.
And then in a flash it came to him--the man was a mute, possibly a deaf mute.
And then Jim Hall disappeared.
And then, just as suddenly, like the sun rising on a stormy sea, they would begin to laugh.
And then, one day, again out in the back-pasture, he saw Dick start a jackrabbit and run it.
And then, one night, he escaped.
And then, on the crowded sidewalks there were persons innumerable whose attention he attracted.
And then shame came to him.
And then she found the thing for which she sought.
And then she told him all--told him the truth word by word, without attempting to shield herself or condone her error.
And then, so strange was the dream, there was a crash.
And then, suddenly, he turned upon her.
And then Tarzan of the Apes did just what his first ancestor would have done.
And then Tarzan:   Yes, rest.
And then the cruiser had come.
And then there came to him a feeling that he wanted her more than all the rest of the things in the world.
And then three things happened almost simultaneously.
And then Tublat went mad.
And there came a day when the hawk's shadow did not drive him crouching into the bushes.
And there, out in the snow of their back track, was the she-wolf waiting for him.
And there was a smell in the air of fish.
And there was need for it.
And there were dogs everywhere that snarled at him and that he must not attack.
And there were easements and satisfactions.
And there were so many gods!  He was made dizzy by the swarming of them.
And there were the dogs, ever squabbling and bickering, bursting into uproars and creating confusions.
And these perilous contacts from all these strange hands he must endure.
And the young man and the two old men; they, too, were much as he had pictured his own people to be.
And this also was a law of the gods.
And this time he was beaten even more severely than before.
And thus, by painstaking and continued practice, he learned the art of roping.
And thus came Tarzan of the Apes to the first outpost of civilization.
And thus came the young Lord Greystoke into the kingship of the Apes.
And thus he learned that there was no taboo on jackrabbits.
And thus the rising sun found them in the morning.
And to his ears came sounds of the strange god's movements.
And very quietly he smelled the air and read the message it bore of a strange god's presence.
And when he had overthrown the strange dog the gang went in to finish it.
And when it did get its teeth into him, it did not hold on but let go instantly and darted away again.
and when the spirit of her mother is abroad, it will find us together in death, as it has always found us in life.
And while his eyes were still closed, he had felt, tasted, and smelled.
And White Fang allowed himself to be driven away.
And White Fang just as bitterly hated them back.
And White Fang was growling responsively, the crooning note of the growl more pronounced than ever.
And White Fang won out on the one chance in ten thousand denied him by the surgeon.
And with every rock he struck, he yelped.
And within him it aroused feelings which he had likewise never experienced before.
And woe to the dog that at such times ran foul of him.
And yet Grey Beaver was as a child-god among these white- skinned ones.
And yet he remained somehow different from other dogs.
And yet it was in precisely this way that he was treated.
And yet it was not physically painful.
A new and incomprehensibly fairer life was dawning.
A new wistfulness was in her face, but it was not the wistfulness of hunger.
An hour later he started up listening.
An hour later, taking advantage of the cut-offs around which the sled had to go, Bill arrived.
An hour of this passed, when the vibrations of feet in contact with the ground foreran the one who approached.
An hour went by, and a second hour.
An idea came to him.
An instant she paused thus, as though turned to stone, and then, with an awful scream, she sprang.
An' I tell you right now, Henry, I'm goin' to get her.
An' I wisht I'd never started on this trip, Henry.
an' lookin' for game at the same time.
An' Ol' Villan cried like a baby.
Another advantage he possessed was that of correctly judging time and distance.
Another day a full-grown wolf, fresh-caught from the Wild, was shoved in through the door of the pen.
Another male then sprang into the arena, and, repeating the horrid cries of his king, followed stealthily in his wake.
Another spear and then another touched him.
Another thing she did, and which made traveling an onerous trial for her.
answered, his face drawn with fatigue and the sorrow he felt for poor D'Arnot and he emphasized the word before.
A pack of bloodhounds followed the way of his bleeding feet.
A panic seized him, and he ran madly toward the village.
A perfect type of the strongly masculine, unmarred by dissipation, or brutal or degrading passions.
A personification, was Tarzan of the Apes, of the primitive man, the hunter, the warrior.
Apes had written in English, and you could not understand a word of any  Again he laughed.
A portion of his chest was laid bare to the ribs, three of which had been broken by the mighty blows of the gorilla.
A quick jerk drew it taut.
A rain of pecks fell on his ill-used nose.
are safely off the thing I shall spend my energies in looking after our own welfare.
Armed men rushed from the interior of many a hut and raced madly across the clearing toward the excited sentry.
Arrows and bullets flew thick and fast.
As an enemy of his kind, it was in White Fang's province to fight with them.
As a result, having learned the lesson well, White Fang was hard put whenever he passed the cross-roads saloon.
As before, it followed him back to earth.
As compared with the Indians he had known, they were to him another race of beings, a race of superior gods.
As D'Arnot watched the spot where the body had entered the tree he heard the sounds of movement there.
A second and smaller sled was driven by Mit-sah, and to this was harnessed a team of puppies.
A second cry arose, piercing the silence with needle-like shrillness.
As for his  He did not finish his sentence.
As for snarling he could snarl more terribly than any dog, young or old, in camp.
As for the big black woman, she was evidently connected in some way to the girl, and so he liked her, also.
As he approached the cabin he saw Jane coming out.
As he arose he lowered his crossed arms, exposing the bestial face of Beauty Smith.
As he bent his head carelessly to smell it, White Fang bristled slightly.
As he did so, a draught of air fanned him, and a large, winged body swept ominously and silently past.
As he dozed off he was aroused by his comrade's voice.
As he had grown older, he found that he had grown away from his people.
As he neared her, he became suddenly cautious.
As he piled wood on the fire he discovered an appreciation of his own body which he had never felt before.
As he rounded the house to the _porte-cochere_, he came upon the carriage.
As he sank back with it between his teeth, he kept his eye on the sapling.
As he took each article from the walls, he placed it in a pile in the center of the room.
As he turned, the little, mean-faced man drew a revolver from his belt and shot the giant in the back.
As he turned to descend the ladder he was surprised to see his wife standing on the steps almost at his side.
As he was trying to think out some plan to distract her attention he heard a wild cry from across the clearing.
As his eyes closed it fell away from his hand.
As his teeth crunched through the tender flesh and fragile bones, he began naturally to eat.
A short run down the road brought her to a horrified stand, for there before her was another wall of flame.
A shrill and minute singing stole upon his heating.
As I  garbed in the mantle of virtue.
A single word from Tarzan would make a great difference in this man's life.
As in the past he had bristled and snarled at sight of Lip-lip, so now, and automatically, he bristled and snarled.
As it began to flame up, the circle of eyes drew farther back.
As its eyes met Clayton's it stopped, and deliberately, cautiously gathered its hind quarters behind it.
As it was drawn up a young officer stepped out.
As it was, he never had a chance to kill them.
As it was, he ran the young wolf down and killed and ate him.
As it was, he struck heavily on his side.
As Jane permitted herself to harbor these thoughts, others equally unwelcome forced themselves upon her.
As Kulonga continued his journey Tarzan closed on him until he traveled almost over the black's head.
As Lip-lip invariably won, he enjoyed it hugely.
As Matt had pleaded for White Fang when he had been bitten, it was now Weedon Scott's turn to plead.
A soft southland dog would have died under it, but not he.
A sound among the dogs attracted the men's attention.
A spasm of fear went through him.
As quickly as she could she raised the great bar and fairly dragged Clayton within.
A squirrel, running around the base of the trunk, came full upon him, and gave him a great fright.
As rigid as the sled-discipline of the gods, was the discipline maintained by White Fang amongst his fellows.
As she charged, Kulonga unslung his bow and fitted an arrow with almost unthinkable quickness.
As she had saved Dick's life, she now saved the groom's.
As she lay more quietly in his arms Tarzan slightly relaxed his grip upon her.
As Tarzan finished reading, Clayton entered and came toward him with extended hand.
As Tarzan moved steadily onward his mind was occupied with many strange and new thoughts.
as Tarzan's savage cry came faintly to their ears.
As Tarzan stood upon the threshold brooding, D'Arnot had entered the cabin.
As Terkoz reached the group, five huge, hairy beasts sprang upon him.
As the days went by, the evolution of _like_ into _love_ was accelerated.
As the hand descended closer and closer, there raged within the cub a battle of the instincts.
As the hunting man-animals went out and came back, so she would come back to the village some time.
As the knife sank deep into its body the gorilla shrieked in pain and rage.
As the sun was to the outside dweller, this wall was to him the sun of his world.
As the time went by, he had fewer and fewer fights.
As the track led his way, he followed, prepared to meet the maker of it at every turn of the stream.
As they drove along, he said:    would possibly be married by now.
As they slid along, noiseless as shadows, in the moonlight, they came upon a run-way.
A strip of scarlet cloth, a bearskin, twenty cartridges, and Kiche, went to pay the debt.
As you know, we were supposed to have set out upon a scientific expedition to the Congo.
At all times he was in violent motion, now being turned over or around, and again, being smashed against a rock.
At any rate, it was a lie.
At a turning of the trail he came in sight of her again upon another straight stretch.
At eighteen he read fluently and understood nearly all he read in the many and varied volumes on the shelves.
A temporary pause, when taken off his guard, gave him the vital moment in which to think and determine his action.
At first, amid the applause of the gods, he betrayed a trifle of his old self-consciousness and awkwardness.
At first, he had known surprise.
At first he was dignified, and the master laughed the harder.
At first he was unable to drag himself along, and Beauty Smith had to wait half-an-hour for him.
At first suspicious and hostile, White Fang grew to like this petting.
At first Tarzan would eat nothing, but rolled and tossed in a wild delirium of fever.
At first, the cubs whimpered and cried, but for the most part they slept.
At first, the killing of the white men's dogs had been a diversion.
At first, the wall had leaped beyond his vision.
At first this caused trouble for the other dogs.
At Grey Beaver's heels he limped obediently through the village to the tepee.
At heart he was even a greater coward than Mr.
At her feet lay the prostrate form of the Negress.
A third and answering cry arose, also to the rear and to the left of the second cry.
At his side was the hunting knife of his unknown sire, and across his shoulders the coils of his own long rope.
A thousand times this occurred, and each time the terror it inspired was as vivid and great as ever.
At intervals Clayton called aloud and finally it came to Tarzan that he was searching for the old man.
At last Grey Beaver withheld his hand.
At last he gave it up, and turned, foaming with rage and hatred, into the jungle.
At last he lay at the master's feet, into whose possession he now surrendered himself, voluntarily, body and soul.
At last her shoulders were out.
At last he saw it, not twenty feet away--the long, lithe, muscular body and tawny head of a huge black-maned lion.
At last he was free.
At last he was rewarded by the sounds of the regular breathing within which denotes sleep.
At last his nose touched the canvas.
At last she desisted and with a little laugh raised the locket to her lips.
At last the fever abated and the boy commenced to mend.
At last the ship came up directly into the wind; the anchor was lowered; down came the sails.
At last the time came that he decided to eat the meat from the hand.
At least he would return and see, before he continued what seemed to be a most fruitless quest.
At length all hope left them, and they prepared to camp for the night within the village.
At length a simple explanation occurred to her.
At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter's bent old shoulder.
At length he came to a great tree, heavy laden with thick foliage and loaded with pendant loops of giant creepers.
At length he discovered her.
At length he fell into a quiet slumber, nor did he awake again until afternoon.
At length he handed it to D'Arnot.
At length Professor Porter made an attempt to move one leg.
At length she arose, leaving her manuscript upon the table.
At length she gave in from sheer loathing of the continued and hateful importuning.
At length Tarzan looked up to watch the girl as she examined the locket.
at luncheon table, when his son narrated the lesson he had given White he shook his head sadly.
At midnight the chill wind that blew drove him to shelter at the rear of the cabin.
At one end he built a fireplace of small stones from the beach.
A tree, contracting in the cool of the night, made a loud noise.
At sight of the crowd they stopped their dogs and came over and joined it, curious to see the cause of the excitement.
At some distance away she stopped, and a boat was lowered and dispatched toward the beach.
At such times he betrayed no anger.
At such times her running mates flashed their teeth and growled threateningly across at each other.
At such times he whimpered and snarled in his sleep, and they that looked on said that his dreams were bad.
At such times love was joy to him, a wild, keen- thrilling satisfaction.
At such times reason fled from White Fang, and in his transports of rage he was even more mad than Beauty Smith.
At such times White Fang leaned in close against the master's legs and received reassuring pats on the head.
At that moment the newcomer's fist landed a smashing blow full in his face.
At the end of that time the two men could converse quite easily.
At the faint sound of his distant feet, before he came in sight, White Fang knew who was coming and began to bristle.
At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung, in single file, over the brow of a low hill.
At the first cut of the whip, White Fang left the chicken for the man.
At the first hint of conflict, the whole team drew together and faced him.
At the first hint of darkness he hastened to make a camp, and he saw to it that he had a generous supply of firewood.
At the fort Beauty Smith left him securely tied and went in to bed.
At the front were the strongest.
At the instant he fell a remarkable item of natural history leaped to his mind.
At the instant his jaws closed on it, White Fang struck him.
At the instant his voice broke the silence, White Fang leaped back, snarling savagely at him.
At their backs was the Dark Continent.
At their destination they were met by Clayton and Mr.
At the rear limped the weak members, the very young and the very old.
At the rear of the sled toiled a second man.
At the same moment Matt noticed two objects lying in the snow.
At the same time he was made aware of a sensation of hunger.
At the sight of him as he came out of the cabin, they sprang upon him.
At the sound of it the strange animal leaped back into the darkness.
At this moment speech came to White Fang, rushing up in a great burst of barking.
At this moment, still running at top speed, White Fang became suddenly aware of an attack from the side.
At times his voice broke, and he was forced to stop reading for the pitiful hopelessness that spoke between the lines.
A twig that he thought a long way off, would the next instant hit him on the nose or rake along his ribs.
Avaricious farmers hunted him with shot-guns.
A vast silence reigned over the land.
A vivid and blinding light flashed from the whirling, inky clouds above.
A week ago that sentence would have filled her with delight, now it depressed her.
A week later the two men came suddenly upon a clearing in the forest.
A week passed; a tense, uneventful, but uncomfortable week for all the inmates of the little Wisconsin farmhouse.
A wild scream of fear and anguish hastened them.
A wolf-mother was not made to remember her cubs of a year or so before.
A year from the day her little son was born Lady Alice passed quietly away in the night.
Back he circled, across the drive to the other lawn, and again she headed him off.
Baseek was old, and already he had come to know the increasing valour of the dogs it had been his wont to bully.
Baseek was surprised by the other's temerity and swiftness of attack.
Beauty Smith blinked in the lamplight and looked about him.
Beauty Smith cowered down in anticipation of the blow.
Beauty Smith did not jump away.
Beauty Smith enjoyed the task.
Beauty Smith entered, club in hand, and took the chain off from White Fang's neck.
Beauty Smith gave him a beating.
Beauty Smith had estimated his powers well, for he was invariably the victor.
Beauty Smith had regained his feet and come over to look at White Fang.
Beauty Smith, his hands still behind him, began to back away.
Beauty Smith put his hands behind his back, refusing to touch the proffered money.
Beauty Smith regained his feet and came toward him, sniffling and cowardly.
Beauty Smith replied with a grunt.
(Beauty Smith's eyes lighted up at this, and he licked his thin lips with an eager tongue).
Beauty Smith started.
Beauty Smith started to walk away.
Beauty Smith strode into camp and stood over White Fang.
Beauty Smith's words to Grey Beaver.
Beauty Smith tightened the thong again, and White Fang crawled limply and dizzily to his feet.
Beauty Smith was frightened and angry.
Beauty Smith was known far and wide as the weakest of weak-kneed and snivelling cowards.
Because he ran at the end of the longest rope, the dogs had always the view of him running away before them.
Because it was unknown, it was hostile to him.
Because of all this, he hated the man.
Because of the two prior convictions against him, Judge Scott imposed upon him a sentence of fifty years.
Because of this new feeling within him, he ofttimes elected discomfort and pain for the sake of his god.
Before dark the barkentine lay peacefully at anchor upon the bosom of the still, mirror-like surface of the harbor.
Before, he had hunted in play, for the sheer joyousness of it; now he hunted in deadly earnestness, and found nothing.
Before he had known the gods, she had been to him the centre-pin of the universe.
Before he knew what he was doing, he had slashed the intruder twice and sprung clear.
Before her was a small cauldron standing over a low fire and in it bubbled a thick, reddish, tarry mass.
Before him, sitting silently on their haunches, were five live things, the like of which he had never seen before.
Before him was bounding the faint patch of white he had discovered.
Before him was smiling country, streaming with sunshine, lazy with quietude.
Before his eyes closed the wolves had drawn too near for safety.
Before she could reach them, however, Clayton had jumped to Tarzan's side and attempted to drag Canler from his grasp.
Before that he had recoiled automatically from hurt, as he had crawled automatically toward the light.
Before the day was out, White Fang was to learn more about this law.
Before the drum sat three old females, each armed with a knotted branch fifteen or eighteen inches in length.
Before them stood Clayton's car surrounded by the party he had brought from the cottage.
Before them stretched the broad Atlantic.
Before the officers had taken a dozen backward steps the men were upon them.
Before they saw the cause, the two men saw him turn and start to run back toward them.
Beginning here, as though regretting her parsimony, Nature had spread his features with a lavish hand.
Behind him were two males, and then Kala, closely straining the little dead form to her breast.
Behind him would be Mit-sah, the great whip singing in his hand.
Behind trailed the women, uttering strange cries and weird lamentation.
Being a female, she possessed no such instinct.
Being sled-leader was anything but gratifying to him.
beneath Tarzan's tree.
Beneath the picture were three little bugs--  BOY.
Besides, all Southland dogs looked upon him with suspicion.
Besides, he did not like the hands of the man-animals.
Besides, he was hungry.
Besides, he was learning how to get along with Grey Beaver.
Besides, it did not seem to him that it was intended he should fight with the dog he saw before him.
Besides it felt so uncomfortable that he quickly decided that he preferred the shame to the discomfort.
Besides, it was a position of such utter helplessness that White Fang's whole nature revolted against it.
Besides, it was not fear, but terror, that convulsed him.
Besides the law of meat, there were a myriad other and lesser laws for him to learn and obey.
Besides, there was a greater consistence in their dislike of him.
Besides, there was his old antipathy to being touched.
Besides, this god had no club, no whip, no firearm.
Besides, White Fang was a valuable animal, the strongest sled-dog he had ever owned, and the best leader.
Between him and all domestic animals there must be no hostilities.
Between them and the enclosure stretched a cultivated field in which a number of negroes were working.
Between White Fang and them existed a neutrality and no more.
Beyond a growl or a grunt, the dog took its punishment silently.
Beyond his snuggling and the throwing of a crooning note into his love-growl, he had no way of expressing his love.
beyond, she saw framed in the tiny square of the latticed window the head of a huge lioness.
Bill began to eat sleepily.
Bill cautiously slipped the gun from under the sled-lashing.
Bill held up the empty cup.
Bill opened his mouth to speak, but changed his mind.
Bill threw on more wood, before lighting his pipe.
Bill turned and looked, then quietly stopped the dogs.
Bill uttered an exclamation.
Bill waved his hand at it threateningly and shouted loudly; but the animal betrayed no fear.
B is for Boy, His first name is Joe.
Bit by bit, infinitely cautious, he approached the hand.
Bitter experiences these, which, perforce, he swallowed, calling upon all his wisdom to cope with them.
Black Michael was determined that nothing belonging to the Claytons should be left on board.
Bless me!  But it is most  recall any of the details of the finding and burying of three skeletons    Mr.
Blows were raining upon him from all sides.
Body and brain, his was a more perfected mechanism.
Both men bent over the dogs.
Both men located the sound.
Both men were on their knees, bending over the dogs.
Both nose and tongue had been scorched by the live thing, sun-coloured, that had grown up under Grey Beaver's hands.
Both noses went down to the footprints in the snow.
both safe, well, and together again.
Both sides of his neck and head were ripped and slashed.
Both turned toward him.
Bound by bound he gained.
Bound down a prisoner, denied even movement by the plaster casts and bandages, White Fang lingered out the weeks.
brain, superinducing total mental aberration.
Breathlessly he waved his left arm above his prostrate body--it waved!   excited tone.
Breathlessly the tribe watched from their lofty perches as Kerchak, still roaring, charged the relatively puny figure.
Burning brands made them spring aside, but they no longer sprang back.
Busy life went on as it had been before the darkness and the fright.
But after a time, he grew even to like the children.
But  After he had left them they went silently below, each wrapped in gloomy forebodings.
But after that he was afraid no more of the looming bulks of the tepees.
But after the lynx, all fighting ceased for White Fang.
But after we were well under sail the truth came out.
But again the timidity of the wild thing in the face of human habitation swept over Tarzan of the Apes.
But almost as quickly as it had arisen, the commotion died away.
But a portion of this knowledge was quickly to be his.
But as a rule he managed to maintain a dignity that was almost solemnity.
But as he lay there, suddenly there came to him a feeling as of something terrible impending.
But as they grew shorter and White Fang's second winter in the Southland came on, he made a strange discovery.
But a still greater cunning lurked in the recesses of the Indian mind.
But at front and rear, unawed and indomitable, toiled the two men who were not yet dead.
But at the end of half an hour he arose, growled wrathfully at the motionless ball, and trotted on.
But at the end of several minutes two dogs were struggling in the dirt and the third was in full flight.
But at the sight of him the five men did not spring to their feet, nor show their teeth, nor snarl.
But, at two in the morning, his anxiety drove him out to the cold front stoop, where he crouched, and waited.
But Baseek did not wait.
But Beauty Smith had a purpose in all that he did to White Fang.
But Beauty Smith had not created himself, and no blame was to be attached to him.
But Beauty Smith kept a wary eye on him, and the club was held always ready to strike.
But Beauty Smith knew the ways of Indians.
But before she could go on a sudden turn in the road brought them into the midst of a little hamlet.
But be that as it may, they joined with Lip-lip in the persecution.
But between him and Alice, the master's wife, there existed a secret.
But bit by bit, whenever the chance offered, he was getting more of the loose skin and fur in his mouth.
But Black Michael was a fit leader for this band of cutthroats, and, withal held them in fair subjection to his rule.
But Cherokee did not seem anxious to fight.
But Collie did not give over, as was her wont, after a decent interval of chastisement.
But deep in the minds of the apes was rooted the conviction that Tarzan was a mighty fighter and a strange creature.
But doubtless they were as ferocious and cruel as other men he had seen.
But endure it he must, or perish, and the life that was in him had no desire to perish out.
But ere they touched that fair skin another mood claimed the anthropoid.
But even this he was not allowed to complete.
But fear was accompanied by another instinct--that of concealment.
But for some time longer he sat and brooded, the two remaining dogs crouching and trembling at his feet.
But gods are accustomed to being obeyed, and Grey Beaver wrathfully launched a canoe in pursuit.
But greatest of all the advantages in White Fang's favour, was his experience.
But growth demanded disobedience.
But had he been merely wise he would not have gone back to Grey Beaver who had already twice betrayed him.
But he did not go into the fires.
But he did not run his best in this chase.
But he did not wonder why he had torn Sabor from the tender flesh of the strange girl.
But he had early discovered that one wall of his world was different from the rest.
But he had little time to marvel at the transformation.
But he had long since learned that there was such a thing as Chance, or Opportunity, and he continued to draw near.
But he had not yet grown compact.
But he himself did not know anything about it.
But he knew he was facing a horrible death, and so did she.
But he neither snapped nor sprang away.
But he never forgot himself.
But here was a dog that kept at a distance, dancing and dodging here and there and all about.
But her fears were more for Tarzan than for Canler.
But he sprang upon the guard one day and used his teeth on the other's throat just like any jungle animal.
But he still lived a public life, in a cage, surrounded by curious men.
But he was anything save a beauty.
But he was, further, the fiercest of the litter.
But he was going too fast, and the hound was too close.
But he was indeed a hero in the eyes of these men--men accustomed to hunting big game.
But he was not compelled to take injustice from the other gods.
But he was not destined to enjoy that bed.
But he was too morose and solitary for that.
But he was very sick.
But his curiosity was rampant, and several minutes later he was venturing forth on a new quest.
But his fangs never closed in that nut brown flesh.
But his father was a wolf.
But his fellows grew wise in their own way; and in this White Fang grew wise with them.
But his was so hopeless--his was pitiful.
But if it was a bluff he intended, it did not work.
But if the white gods were all-powerful, their dogs did not amount to much.
But if they were all mildness toward her, they were all fierceness toward one another.
But I'm goin' to lay for her.
But in a short while his fear of the tepees passed away.
But, instead, let two or three or four of you attack him together.
But in the moment he looked at Lip-lip his hair rose on end all along his back.
But in this matter there was a difference, and many differences.
But into the mind of Tarzan a great plan sprang.
But it can scarcely be said that White Fang was a member of the gang.
But it could not last long.
But it did not all happen in a day, this giving over of himself, body and soul, to the man-animals.
But it is equally true that he then withdrew, leaving the gang to receive the punishment of the outraged gods.
But it was a fizzle.
But it was a growl with a new note in it.
But it was a weak growl at best, and it quickly ceased.
But it was not all easy for White Fang.
But it was not altogether an unhappy bondage.
But it was not Kiche's fault.
But it was the will of the god, and he strove to submit.
But Jane did not once lose consciousness.
But keep a still tongue in yer 'ead an' when ye 'ear shootin' git below an' stay there.
But Kerchak could never think far enough ahead to take advantage of any such opportunity.
But know that I am always your friend, JANE PORTER.
But Lip-lip had lived his life in camp and had fought many puppy fights.
But love is a strange master, and human nature is still stranger, so she asked her question.
But Matt's foot had already started on its way to kick White Fang.
But Matt's hand went limp in the other's grasp as his gaze shot past and remained fixed on something behind him.
But more things, and most grievous ones, were happening with equal suddenness.
But most potent in his education was the cuff of the master's hand, the censure of the master's voice.
But, most wonderful of all, a number of white men like himself were moving about between the beach and his cabin.
But nobody else ever romped with White Fang.
But no harm came of it, nor of the embrace from the strange man-god that followed.
But no help was offered.
But no matter how fast he went he found them always with him.
But no pleas, or threats, or promises of reward could move him.
But not once did the Frenchman cry out in pain.
But no village greeted his eyes.
But now he heard, outside, the sounds of many voices, and long mournful howls, and mighty wailing.
But nowhere was pictured any of his own people; in all the book was none that resembled Kerchak, or Tublat, or Kala.
But now his waning powers would not permit such a course.
But now it was different.
But now it was different.
But now it was different.
But often a pause so gained lengthened out until it evolved into a complete cessation from the attack.
But of these things Tarzan did not think.
But old One Eye was doubtful.
But one day, Kulonga, a son of the old king, Mbonga, wandered far into the dense mazes to the west.
But one day the master sprang from the carriage, whip in hand, and gave the stone-throwers a thrashing.
But One Ear broke into a run across the snow, his traces trailing behind him.
But on this trip he did not get lost.
But Sabor was not killed.
But scarcely had he lain down when Grey Beaver staggered over to him and tied a leather thong around his neck.
But scarcely had he taken a single step ere a heavy hand closed upon his arm with a grip of steel.
But scarcely had the cheer of its light departed, than he went into camp.
But she thrust him ignominiously away and behind her.
But she would not heed, and just then the ape charged, so that Clayton could say no more.
But sights and sounds and smells were different from those he had last had when he fled away from it.
But somebody had to do the cooking, and whatever else his shortcomings, Beauty Smith could cook.
But something lacked.
But such fights were of brief duration.
But suddenly, with remarkable swiftness, Lip-lip leaped in, delivering a slashing snap, and leaped away again.
But Tarzan tired of it, as he found that kingship meant the curtailment of his liberty.
But that came in later years.
But that did not loosen the jaws.
But that leap was never made.
But that mental power was yet in the future.
But that was not all.
But the bane of his life was Lip-lip.
But the blow did not fall.
But the clamour of approval did not distract him.
But the cub did not think in man-fashion.
But the cub was learning.
But the death he prayed for was not to be so easily had.
But the dogs could never learn the lesson to leave him alone in camp.
But the dog younger or smaller than himself was weak, a thing to be destroyed.
But the effect upon White Fang was not to cow him.
But the elder leader was wise, very wise, in love even as in battle.
But the first man on Mars would have experienced less unfamiliarity than did he.
But the fresh meat was strong in Baseek's nostrils, and greed urged him to take a bite of it.
But the girl, ah--that was a different matter.
But the god made no hostile movement, and went on calmly talking.
But the god talked on interminably.
But the god talked on softly, and ever the hand rose and fell with non- hostile pats.
But the god went on talking.
But the man whose hand he had bitten was angry.
But the memory of his mother held him.
But the moment before the rifle came to a level on him, he leaped sidewise behind the corner of the cabin.
But the moment he left the protection of the fire, the boldest wolf leaped for him, but leaped short.
But the moment laughter was turned upon him he would fly into a most terrible rage.
But the most wonderful sight of all, to him, was the face of the beautiful white girl.
But the other kind was divided.
But the pack invariably lost him.
But the pot was beyond arm's length and beside Henry.
But there came a time when the god refused to toss it.
But there was another sound.
But there was his faithfulness, and he went back to be betrayed yet a third time.
But there _was_ life, abroad in the land and defiant.
But there was no danger.
But there was one lesson the dogs did learn, and that was to keep together.
But there was one man amongst them who particularly enjoyed the sport.
But there was one thing that he never outgrew--his growling.
But there was one trial in White Fang's life--Collie.
But there were other forces at work in the cub, the greatest of which was growth.
But the rose-colour swiftly faded.
But these things had not been so.
But these were accidents.
But the she-wolf coolly thrust past him.
But the she-wolf was very weak and sick.
But the situation of the pack was desperate.
But the slope grew more gradual, and its base was grass-covered.
But the squirrel was as badly scared.
But the wolves were growing bolder, and the men were aroused more than once from their sleep.
But the world now seemed changed.
But they displayed little difference from the wolf when they discovered the cub and his mother.
But they had been domesticated for generations.
But they saw, up the trail, and not down, two men running with sled and dogs.
But they went away with vengeance unsatisfied.
But things were commencing to happen below him.
But this circle had a continuous tendency to draw in upon him.
But this could not last for ever.
But this did not satisfy Weedon Scott.
But this he was to learn early in his residence in Santa Clara Valley.
But this love did not come in a day.
But this time Beauty Smith left him tied with a stick.
But this time, before he dozed again, he tied a burning pine-knot to his right hand.
But this, too, quickly died down and ceased.
But this was only when the master was not around.
But this was quickly followed by anger.
But to him, in appearance and action and impulse, still clung the Wild.
But to Tarzan a dawning light had come to explain the mystery of CLOTHES.
But to the cub the spectacle of her protective rage was pleasing.
But upon his way he demanded consideration.
But Weedon Scott was not listening.
But what had occurred before was repeated--with a difference.
But what he had expected was nothing to what he realised.
But when the frames of poles were made into tepees by being covered with cloth and skins, White Fang was astounded.
But when the love-master spoke, White Fang came to him with prompt obedience.
But when White Fang stopped without orders, then it was allowed them to spring upon him and destroy him if they could.
But White Fang could not believe.
But White Fang could not get at the soft underside of the throat.
But White Fang did not follow them.
But White Fang did not mind.
But White Fang knew that he had broken the law of the gods.
But White Fang learned to omit these preliminaries.
But White Fang refused to growl.
But White Fang was not demonstrative.
But White Fang was unaware of it.
But with every mishap he was learning.
But with the master the cuff was always too light to hurt the flesh.
But with the sheep-dog it was otherwise.
But worse than all this, was the atmosphere in which he lived.
But you are deep, Mr.
By accident the noose fell squarely about the running ape's neck, bringing him to a sudden and surprising halt.
By it he had been formed and hardened into the Fighting Wolf, fierce and implacable, unloving and unlovable.
By it he trimmed his conduct and adjusted his actions.
By it White Fang knew whether he did right or not.
By the cabin door stood Jane.
By the time Tarzan had hunted his way back to the vicinity of the cabin, feeding as he went, it was quite dark.
By this means he announced that he was prepared to retaliate for any hurt he might receive.
By this time he had become the centre of interest.
By this time Professor Porter and Mr.
By this time the balance of the party had come up, and volley after volley was fired toward the concealed foe.
By what right, sir, did you interfere between my daughter and Mr.
Came the day when Grey Beaver, deciding that the liability of her running away was past, released Kiche.
Canler felt the hostility that emanated from each member of the party.
Canler, gasping for breath, nodded.
Canler had asked for no security, and you know, dearie, what that will mean for me if papa cannot meet them.
Canler introduced him to the others.
Canler--she does not wish to marry him.
Canler turned and extended his hand.
Canler was about to reply, when the sound of footsteps came from the hall without, and Jane entered the room.
Canler was a splendid match.
Canler was insistent that Jane marry him at once.
cannot afford to see them.
can't venture into the jungle with me; yet someone must go in search of your father.
Carefully he felt upon the desk.
Carefully he unwrapped it, removing layer after layer of leaves until at length he held a photograph in his hand.
Carefully she drew up the wounded member to insinuate it gently beyond the tight pressing bars.
Carefully they ransacked every hut and corner of the village, but no sign of D'Arnot could they find.
carry him and protect him.
Cautiously he intruded his hand between the meshes of the lattice until his whole arm was within the cabin.
Cautiously she moved a great padded paw forward, noiselessly placing it before she lifted the next.
CHAPTER III--THE GREY CUB   He was different from his brothers and sisters.
CHAPTER III--THE REIGN OF HATE   Under the tutelage of the mad god, White Fang became a fiend.
CHAPTER II--THE BONDAGE   The days were thronged with experience for White Fang.
CHAPTER II--THE LAIR   For two days the she-wolf and One Eye hung about the Indian camp.
CHAPTER II--THE MAD GOD   A small number of white men lived in Fort Yukon.
CHAPTER II--THE SOUTHLAND   White Fang landed from the steamer in San Francisco.
CHAPTER IV--THE CALL OF KIND   The months came and went.
CHAPTER IV--THE CLINGING DEATH   Beauty Smith slipped the chain from his neck and stepped back.
CHAPTER VI--THE FAMINE   The spring of the year was at hand when Grey Beaver finished his long journey.
CHAPTER V--THE COVENANT   When December was well along, Grey Beaver went on a journey up the Mackenzie.
CHAPTER V--THE LAW OF MEAT   The cub's development was rapid.
Cherokee identified himself with his instinct.
Cherokee still holding his grip, urged against him, trying to get him over entirely on his side.
Cherokee was puzzled, too.
Cherokee was too squat, too close to the ground.
Clayton, also, heard the scream, and Professor Porter and Mr.
Clayton and papa and Mr.
Clayton, as he thought, and he has stayed to rescue Lieutenant D'Arnot; of that you may be sure.
Clayton called several times, but there was no reply, and so the two returned to the greater safety of the interior.
Clayton came to his feet with a start.
Clayton for the kindness you have shown in permitting us the use of your cabin.
Clayton gathered for me, but will add to this from day to day as things happen.
Clayton had taken but a dozen steps.
Clayton had wandered to the point at the harbor's mouth to look for passing vessels.
Clayton had wanted to leave as soon as the plan was announced, but the girl's tired, hopeless look kept him.
Clayton; he is the dearest fellow imaginable, and unless I am mistaken he has fallen very much in love with me.
Clayton--he joined us in London just for the adventure--both felt as skeptical as I.
Clayton in the back, received a spear in his shoulder from some unseen hand in the jungle.
Clayton lay facing the opening at the front, a rifle and a brace of revolvers at his hand.
Clayton looked puzzled.
Clayton lost, and attacked twice by wild beasts.
Clayton moved uneasily in his chair.
Clayton shook his head.
Clayton started back in surprise.
Clayton stood rigid, with raised spear.
Clayton told of the abduction of Jane Porter and the need of armed men to aid in the search for her.
Clayton turned and rushed back toward the scene.
Clayton was the first to remember, and, turning, held out his hand.
Clayton was the first to rush out, and there, beyond the harbor's mouth, he saw two vessels lying at anchor.
Clayton, with Jane, the professor and Esmeralda occupied Clayton's car, while Tarzan took Mr.
Close after her came Kulonga.
Close around them loomed the impenetrable blackness of the jungle.
Closer and closer it came until they could hear the great beast directly beneath them.
Closer and closer they came, until one of them was directly behind the captain.
Clothing from their open boxes and bags strewed the little apartment, and even their beds had been torn to pieces.
clouded by a frown of worry and indecision.
Club and whip were both used upon him, and he experienced the worst beating he had ever received in his life.
clutching frantically at Mr.
college tomorrow to pack his books.
Collie snarled warningly at him, and he was careful to keep his distance.
Collie's teeth were no longer sharp.
Comparative quiet reigned in the village.
Compared with White Fang, they were frail and flabby, and clutched life without any strength in their grip.
Conditions changed rapidly from bad to worse.
Could it be he had failed to note the loud warning?  Never before had Tarzan known Sheeta to be so clumsy.
couple of shots into 'em, they'd be more respectful.
Creeping close beneath the window he waited, listening, for half an hour.
Cupboards and bookcases lined the walls.
Danger and hurt and death did not lurk everywhere about him.
Danger lurked in contacts.
dark and take the first train out of this forest.
Darkness was coming on, and for a while he played about among the trees, pleasuring in his freedom.
Dark spruce forest frowned on either side the frozen waterway.
D'Arnot breathed a sigh of relief, and went about bathing the blood from Tarzan's face.
D'Arnot drank and ate a little.
D'Arnot extinguished the lamp, and lay down upon the cot.
D'Arnot glanced at the title page.
D'Arnot handed Tarzan the two messages that had been left for him.
D'Arnot looked at him in surprise.
D'Arnot opened his eyes.
D'Arnot opened it and handed the letter back to Tarzan.
D'Arnot pointed out a spot on the shore just north of them.
D'Arnot pointed toward the northwest.
D'Arnot reached for the loaded rifle and placed it to his shoulder.
D'Arnot saw a clean-limbed young giant emerge from the shadows into the firelight and come quickly toward him.
D'Arnot shook his head.
D'Arnot sighted along the blue barrel at the crack of the door--and then he pulled the trigger.
D'Arnot spoke to him in French, but the man only shook his head--sadly, it seemed to the Frenchman.
D'Arnot turned back to the window, and presently the police officer spoke.
D'Arnot turned on his side and closed his eyes.
D'Arnot walked to the door and looked out.
D'Arnot was astonished to see, in plain print-like characters, a message in English:   I am Tarzan of the Apes.
D'Arnot was left alone.
D'Arnot was mystified.
D'Arnot was reassured, but still without much hope, though he felt that that face could not mask a cruel heart.
D'Arnot wondered what fate lay in store for him now.
D'Arnot wrote:   I am glad she is safe.
Dashing at top speed around a tepee, he ran full tilt into Kiche lying at the end of her stick.
Dawn came, and daylight.
Dawn was breaking through the windows and dimming the electric lights.
Daylight came at nine o'clock.
days of gettin' acquainted.
Day was a twilight and night was a black silence.
Dead things did their bidding.
Deep in him, below any reasoning process or act of consciousness, he had associated power with godhead.
Deftly he removed the great pelt, for he had practiced often on smaller animals.
Delay meant the coming against him of all the young dogs.
Denied their usual food-supply, weakened by hunger, they fell upon and devoured one another.
Denied the outlet, through play, of his energies, he recoiled upon himself and developed his mental processes.
Dick, on the porch, growled, and White Fang, on the steps, bristled and growled back.
Dick's overtures bothered him, so he snarled Dick away.
Did he lie down to sleep, he was stirred up by a sharp stick--so that the audience might get its money's worth.
Did she love him?  She did not know--now.
Different from the Mackenzie toboggans were the Klondike sleds with runners under them.
disagreeable inflection; and taking Jane Porter by the arm, he started to lead her toward the waiting minister.
discovered a runaway simian from the London Zoo who has brought back a European education to his jungle home.
disgrace myself by such a bargain with any man, I prefer that it be one I already despise.
distant past faced the same problems which we must face, possibly in these same primeval forests.
Dog-mushers' cries were heard.
Do not forget that we are keeping to the  Clayton smiled and dropped his hand to his side.
DO NOT HARM THE THINGS WHICH ARE TARZAN'S.
Don't dast tackle me so long as I got that club handy.
doorway and looking on.
Down out of the blue it would rush, as it dropped upon him changing itself into the ubiquitous electric car.
Down the frozen waterway toiled a string of wolfish dogs.
Drawing the shaft far back he drove the poisoned missile straight into the heart of the great anthropoid.
Ducking, turning, doubling, he slid about the deck, eluding the other's efforts to capture him.
During the time that Kiche was tied by the stick, he ran about over all the camp, inquiring, investigating, learning.
During this period of his development he never knew a moment's security.
During this period Tarzan paid many nocturnal visits to the village, where he often renewed his supply of arrows.
Dusk was falling, and the interior of the cabin was very dark; but the man could see the latch moving from its place.
Duty rose above fear, and thieving gods learned to leave Grey Beaver's property alone.
Each day he made it a point to caress and pet White Fang, and to do it at length.
Each day this remnant of the pack dwindled.
Each dog was fastened to the sled by a single rope.
Each man carrying a rifle and ammunition, beside bedding and some food and cooking utensils.
Each night, after Sierra Vista had gone to bed, she rose and let in White Fang to sleep in the big hall.
Each shift brought the grip closer to his throat.
Early the following morning he set out, and, traveling rapidly, he came before midday to the clearing.
Early the following morning the four within the little cabin by the beach were awakened by the booming of a cannon.
Early the next morning Canler set out for town.
Early the next morning the apes were astir, moving through the jungle in search of food.
Earth was shovelled in and tramped down about the chest until the bottom of the grave showed level and uniform.
enough until help comes.
Environment served to model the clay, to give it a particular form.
Esmeralda and I cornered in an old cabin by a perfectly awful man-eating lioness.
Esmeralda broke into uncontrollable sobbing.
Esmeralda did as she was bade.
Esmeralda did not bother to verify Mr.
Esmeralda opened her eyes.
Esmeralda was positive that it was none other than an angel of the Lord, sent down especially to watch over them.
Especially adept did he become in stalking small living things.
Especially did they enjoy the havoc worked amongst the newcomers' dogs by White Fang and his disreputable gang.
Even a man- animal, a god, White Fang ignored, such was the terror he was in of losing his mother.
Even brave men, and D'Arnot was a brave man, are sometimes frightened by solitude.
Even clothes were a hindrance and a nuisance.
Even in the daylight he did not dare leave the fire to chop fresh wood.
Even Kala, my mother, could never plan ahead.
Even Manu, the monkey, was more intelligent than they.
Even the big beating given him in his puppyhood by Grey Beaver was mild compared with this.
Even the lions and panthers had no fears for her now.
Even then it was not too late for Baseek to retrieve the situation.
Even then, White Fang was not premature.
Even the turning of his head caused him such excruciating agony that he lay still with closed eyes for a long time.
Ever in his ears was sounding her sharp and nervous snarl.
Every advance on his part was accompanied by a corresponding retreat on her part.
Every blow was shrewd to hurt; and he delivered a multitude of blows.
Everybody, save Beauty Smith, looked apprehensively, the fear of the police strong upon them.
Every few moments he called aloud the names of the wanderers.
Every little while, however, one dog or another would flame up in revolt and be promptly subdued.
Every rope was brought to a ring at the front end of the sled.
Every sound she magnified into the stealthy creeping of a sinuous and malignant body.
Every vestige of clothing was torn from him, and the merciless blows fell upon his bare and quivering flesh.
Every word, every cautious action, on the part of the men, impressed upon him his own terrible ferocity.
Evidently it was not in its accustomed place, for she explored ever nearer and nearer the wall where Tarzan stood.
expression of astonishment.
Facing the little knot of officers was the entire motley crew of the Fuwalda, and at their head stood Black Michael.
Faintly, from a distance, came a low, sad moaning.
Faintly she heard it--the weak beating of the little heart.
Faint, strange sounds came from within.
Fairly jumped at me like a mad dog.
Faithfulness and willingness characterised his toil.
Famine came again, and the cub with clearer consciousness knew once more the bite of hunger.
Far below her lay the undergrowth and the hard earth.
Fear surged through him again.
Fear!--that legacy of the Wild which no animal may escape nor exchange for pottage.
Fear urged him to go back, but growth drove him on.
) February 3 (?), 1909.
feedin' time, 'd know all about shooting-irons.
fellow went on with his polishing, which carried him away from where the Claytons were standing.
Finally he stumbled upon the right combination, and the door swung creakingly open before his astonished eyes.
Finally his eyes rested upon a woman directly beneath him.
Finally they passed the danger point, and Tarzan reduced their speed.
Finding that it harmed him not, Kerchak began to examine it closely.
First, he was evidently a valuable possession of the master's, and next, he was undemonstrative.
First of all, he had to learn the family of the master.
Five or six miles from the lair, the stream divided, its forks going off among the mountains at a right angle.
followed him into the ring.
Food and fire, protection and companionship, were some of the things he received from the god.
For a dog to attack another, it would have to turn upon one at a shorter rope.
For a few moments all was silent.
For a long time this amused him, but finally tiring he continued his explorations.
For a moment he stood motionless, his quick, bright eyes scanning the interior of the palisade.
For a moment he stood without, listening intently.
For a moment he was paralysed.
For a moment his muscles stiffened and relaxed convulsively, then he lay still.
For a moment it stood as though listening and then turned slowly, and melted into the shadows of the jungle.
For a moment Jane lay there with half-closed eyes.
For a moment no one noticed Tarzan, sitting silently in his seat.
For a moment--the first in her young life--she knew the meaning of love.
For a moment the men stood silently looking at the result of their fellow's grim humor.
For a moment the others stood looking at the little, mean-faced man and the giant lying dead upon the beach.
For a moment they rolled upon the ground in the fierce frenzy of combat.
For a month they traveled north.
For an hour Tarzan feasted his eyes upon her while she wrote.
For an instant, all was silence; even the bedlam of the forest died to a faint murmur.
For an instant the scene was ludicrous; but only for an instant.
For a time the man-animals continued to make their mouth-noises.
For a week she never left the cave, except for water, and then her movements were slow and painful.
For a week they did little but rest, D'Arnot coaching Tarzan in French.
For Beauty Smith was cruel in the way that cowards are cruel.
For centuries the Wild had stood for terror and destruction.
For days and nights he bellowed his rage at the universe.
Forgotten already were the vanquished rivals and the love-tale red-written on the snow.
Forgotten, save once, when old One Eye stopped for a moment to lick his stiffening wounds.
Forgotten were the days they had hunted together, the game they had pulled down, the famine they had suffered.
For half an hour the men with Lieutenant Charpentier crouched in the dense foliage of the jungle, waiting the signal.
For half an hour they stumbled on, until Clayton, by merest chance, came upon the prostrate form of Esmeralda.
for he did not believe it.
For he had already learned that there were such restrictions.
For he knew that there, floating in the blue above him, was meat, the meat his stomach yearned after so insistently.
For her sake he would have refused the appointment, but she would not have it so.
For him to attack her would require nothing less than a violation of his instinct.
For him to resent such reproof was equally unexpected to her, and she sprang upon him in snarling indignation.
For hours the fury of the storm continued without surcease, and still the tribe huddled close in shivering fear.
For hours they swung slowly along.
For in that instant the she-wolf leaped sidewise from the trail into the clump of spruce trees and disappeared.
For many days D'Arnot lay upon his bed of soft ferns.
Formerly, White Fang had been merely the enemy of his kind, withal a ferocious enemy.
For myself, I always assume that a lion is ferocious,   D'Arnot smiled.
For once, Jim Hall was right.
For once White Fang did not make an immediate attack.
For other men, new in the land, they felt nothing but disdain.
For several days there had been a great hubbub in the village.
For several hours he adhered to this programme.
For several minutes he was to all intents insane.
For some time she stood alone.
For some time they stood there gazing out upon the busy throng beneath, each wrapped in his own thoughts.
For the first few hours he was content with slinking around and watching them from a safe distance.
For the first time he was being really man-handled.
For the first time in his fighting history, men saw White Fang lose his footing.
For the first time she met him with a kindly manner.
For the possession of a flesh-and- blood god, he exchanged his own liberty.
For the sailors, and especially Snipes, he had developed a great hatred.
For the second and last time in his life he had barked and made himself understood.
For the time, fear had been routed by growth, while growth had assumed the guise of curiosity.
For this, likewise, he respected his mother.
For three days he was in delirium, and Tarzan sat beside him and bathed his head and hands and washed his wounds.
Fortune seemed to favour him.
For twenty minutes he pored over them, when suddenly they commenced to take familiar though distorted shapes.
forty-one thousand dollars.
For was not Kiche my brother's  The cub, who had thus received a name in the world, lay and watched.
For weeks and months he never made a sound, in the black silence eating his very soul.
For what seemed an eternity the great brute stood with its forepaws upon the sill, glaring into the little room.
Four of the twenty were dead, a dozen others were wounded, and Lieutenant D'Arnot was missing.
Four sleds pulled in from the river bed to the camp among the trees.
Freedom to roam and run and lie down at will, had been his heritage; and here it was being infringed upon.
From a great mass of impenetrable foliage a few yards away emerged Tarzan of the Apes to swing quietly in his wake.
From a lofty perch Tarzan viewed the village of thatched huts across the intervening plantation.
From below, as from out an abyss of blackness, came up a gurgling sound, as of air bubbling through water.
From far in the distance came the faint sound of many guns.
from his desk and examined all three specimens carefully, making notations meanwhile upon a pad of paper.
From inside the door came a low whining and sobbing.
From the cabin came Mr.
From the description which Clayton and her father and Mr.
From then on his progress was rapid.
From the protection of his god's body to the protection of his god's possessions was a step, and this step he made.
From there he gained the roof of a chicken-house, passed over the ridgepole and dropped to the ground inside.
From there on the elephant-track led straight to Mbonga's village.
From these experiences he became suspicious of all children.
From where Tarzan and the girl stood they could not see the two vessels lying at anchor in the harbor.
From wincing he went to whimpering.
Full into the firelight, with a stealthy, sidelong movement, glided a doglike animal.
Fully a score he could count, staring hungrily at him or calmly sleeping in the snow.
Further he was more directly connected with the Wild than they; and he knew more of its secrets and stratagems.
Furthermore, he got over being awkward and self-conscious.
Furthermore, he was sleepy.
Furthermore, there was no dog like him on the Mackenzie nor the Yukon.
Furthermore, the sled was of some service, for it carried nearly two hundred pounds of outfit and food.
Further, she was unafraid of things.
Generation by generation, down all the generations, had this fear of the Wild been stamped into their natures.
Gently the door opened until a thin crack showed something standing just beyond.
Gently the lithe boy dropped to the soft earth at the end of the village street.
Give 'm a fair chance, an' if he don't   He walked over to White Fang and began talking to him gently and soothingly.
gnaw through leather as clean as a knife an' jes' about half as quick.
Grave, dignified, sombre, a laugh made him frantic to ridiculousness.
Grey Beaver again made him fast with a thong, and in the morning turned him over to Beauty Smith.
Grey Beaver clouted him right and left to make him get up and follow.
Grey Beaver clouted White Fang alongside the head, so that he cowered down close to the earth in respectful obedience.
Grey Beaver continued to beat, White Fang continued to snarl.
Grey Beaver defended White Fang.
Grey Beaver got the thirst.
Grey Beaver had betrayed and forsaken him, but that had no effect upon him.
Grey Beaver laughed and nodded approval.
Grey Beaver looked on stolidly while the white man wielded the whip.
Grey Beaver made mouth-noises which White Fang interpreted as not hostile, so he came still nearer.
Grey Beaver never petted nor caressed.
Grey Beaver ordered meat to be brought to him, and guarded him from the other dogs while he ate.
Grey Beaver picked up the paddle.
Grey Beaver refused to sell the dog.
Grey Beaver saw him, and stopped munching the tallow.
Grey Beaver's wrath was terrible; likewise was White Fang's fright.
Grey Beaver was a god, and strong.
Grey Beaver was busy trading and getting wealthy.
Grey Beaver was in the debt of Three Eagles.
Greystoke never turned a hair, but stood eying the excited man with level gaze.
grizzly--absolutely without sign of fear or hesitation--you would have believed him more than human.
groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just beyond the thin wall.
growled the rat-faced sailor.
Growl he would, from the moment the petting began till it ended.
Growling savagely, White Fang sprang out of the corner, overturning the boy and the girl.
Growth is life, and life is for ever destined to make for light.
Growth was now routed by fear, and he ki-yi'd like any frightened puppy.
Gun in hand, he plunged into the underbrush that lined the side of the trail.
Had Dick had his way, they would have been good friends.
Had he been full-grown, he would have run away.
Had he contented himself with looking fierce and ominous, all would have been well.
Had he left her there to her fate in the lonely jungle?  She glanced nervously about.
Had he merely stood over the meat, head up and glowering, White Fang would ultimately have slunk away.
Had he remained too long? Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street toward the village gate.
had not killed him I know that he would have seen that we were properly   Jane looked at her father sadly.
Half a dozen men were about the man who crouched in the centre of the dying fire.
Half a mile up the right fork, his quick ears caught the sound of gnawing teeth.
Half an hour passed, an hour; and nothing happened.
Hand-clapping and pleased cries from the gods greeted the performance.
Hands were things to keep away from.
hand with this work?  Your shoulder's not hurt so all-fired bad as  revolver nervously.
hanging about for months.
has saved the lives of every member of my father's party is the other.
haste is most unbecoming to men of letters.
Have a care, Professor Archimedes Q.
have promised to marry me.
Having learned to snuggle, White Fang was guilty of it often.
He accepted it as he accepted all the unaccountable doings and manifestations of the gods.
He achieved a staidness, and calmness, and philosophic tolerance.
He acquired a reputation for wickedness amongst the man-animals themselves.
He alone knew that a savage beast had spoken its simple reason through the lips of the ape-man.
He asked no quarter, gave none.
He ate his share of meat as rapidly as he could.
He ate the meat, and nothing happened.
He attacked them when he caught them alone, and they attacked him when they were bunched.
He attempted to obviate this by plastering himself from head to foot with mud, but this dried and fell off.
He avoided them and passed down the porch, but they cornered him against a rocking-chair and the railing.
He avoided tight places and always backed out of it when they bade fair to surround him.
He awoke once and saw in front of him, not a dozen feet away, a big grey wolf, one of the largest of the pack.
He awoke with a start.
He backed away, bewildered and puzzled.
He backed away, stiff-legged with self-consciousness, and tried to go around her.
He backed farther away.
He barely held his own, one leap ahead of his pursuer.
He beat furiously upon the heavy portal.
He became an adept at fighting.
He became cat-like in his ability to stay on his feet.
He became cunning; he had idle time in which to devote himself to thoughts of trickery.
He became malignant and morose.
He became very sick, so sick that Matt was finally compelled to bring him inside the cabin.
He bellied cautiously inside and was met by a warning snarl from the she-wolf.
He belonged to them as all dogs belonged to them.
He betrayed his apprehension, and started tentatively to go.
He bled freely, but showed no signs of being disconcerted.
He bounded towards her joyously, and she met him with shrewd fangs that laid his cheek open to the bone.
He breathed a silent prayer that he be quickly delivered from his torture.
He bristled and showed his teeth, his eyes vigilant, his whole body wary and prepared for anything.
He bristled fiercely and looked ominously across the shin-bone at White Fang.
He bristled suspiciously, but the master warned him that all was well.
He broke down and began to cry and yelp.
He called aloud but there was no response.
He called up his reserves of strength, and gained his feet.
He came close to her once more and took hold of her arm.
He came cringing and crawling into the firelight.
He came down a shelving bank to the stream.
He came in among them, panting, covered with dust.
He came of a breed of meat- killers and meat-eaters.
He came out boldly from the forest and trotted into camp straight to Grey Beaver's tepee.
He came out of a doze that was half nightmare, to see the red-hued she- wolf before him.
He came out of a thicket and found himself face to face with the slow-witted bird.
He came out with a piece of meat, which he tossed to White Fang.
He came to a stop and blinked across at White Fang.
He came to know that it was not fear of him that drove the thief away, but fear of Grey Beaver.
He came to the surface, and the sweet air rushed into his open mouth.
He came to where Grey Beaver's tepee had stood.
He carried himself with pride, as though, forsooth, he had achieved a deed praiseworthy and meritorious.
He cast anxious glances at his mate, but she showed no desire to get up.
He caught Cherokee with head turned away as he whirled more slowly.
He caught sight of White Fang and terror rushed into his face.
He caught the one-eyed elder on his blind side and ripped his ear into ribbons.
He closed his eyes and held his teeth firm set--he would not cry out.
He closed on the canvas with his teeth and gave a gentle tug.
He clung on for a moment, long enough to drag the god over backward.
He clung on, growling savagely.
He cocked his ears and watched it curiously.
He compelled them to an unremitting respect for him.
He considered the victory already his and stepped forward to the meat.
He continued to gaze, and in his interest he forgot to snarl.
He continued up the right fork.
He could die dumb-mad and fighting to the last, but he could not live and be beaten.
He could do nothing, and he could not understand.
He could do nothing to defend himself.
He could escape into safety while the god was scrambling to his feet.
He could feel the pricking and stinging of the old anger as it strove to rise up in him, but it strove against love.
He could get little air, and that little grew less and less under the merciless grip that ever tightened.
He could kill him at his leisure later, when the bow and deadly arrows were laid aside.
He could make a killing and feast well this day.
He could make a louder rasping growl than any of them.
He could neither see nor hear any signs of life about him.
He could not be angry; yet he had to do something.
He could not believe that it was she, and alive.
He could not be satisfied with less, as Matt learned after much inconvenience and trouble.
He could not desert her.
He could not encounter that howling horde with his tail and hind-quarters.
He could not endure a prolonged contact with another body.
He could not fathom them.
He could not forget in a day all the evil that had been wrought him at the hands of men.
He could not go beyond it.
He could not help it.
He could not immediately forego his wild heritage and his memories of the Wild.
He could not quite suppress a snarl, but he made no offer to snap.
He could not stand being laughed at.
He could not tolerate them.
He could not understand at first.
He could not understand why.
He could read it, and he would.
He could resist the call of the world no longer.
He could see the wolves flooding into the big living-room of the fort.
He could tell almost to a minute how far the dance had gone.
He could turn and whirl swiftly enough, but White Fang was never there.
He cowered down and snarled.
He crawled frantically clear of the water and lay down.
He crawled over to his mate and tried to persuade her to get up.
He crawled straight toward Grey Beaver, every inch of his progress becoming slower and more painful.
He crawled the several steps toward the flame.
He crawled tremblingly to his feet and stood whimpering.
He crept closer through the trees until he was quite close above them.
He cringed involuntarily under the expected blow.
He crouched and bristled a little at the thought of it.
He crouched down on the lip of the cave and gazed out on the world.
He crouched down under the impending blow, his hair bristling, but his teeth still keeping tight hold of the rabbit.
He crushed them and broke them on his large horns.
He curved his bushy tail around to cover them, and at the same time he saw a vision.
He darted in low and closed with his fangs.
He declared a vendetta against all dogs.
he deliberately turned his back full upon the sailor and walked nonchalantly away as if to put him to the test.
He did it in a surge of rage.
He did not attempt to check her tears.
He did not calculate such things.
He did not dare travel until dark.
He did not deposit him at once in the bottom of the canoe.
He did not even think the law; he merely lived the law without thinking about it at all.
He did not formulate the law in clear, set terms and moralise about it.
He did not go down again.
He did not hesitate a moment.
He did not know any other place, much less of a way to get there.
He did not know anything about entrances--passages whereby one goes from one place to another place.
He did not know there was any outside at all.
He did not know what a fall was.
He did not know what evil was threatened by those insistent hands.
He did not know what love was.
He did not know what they said, but he could see the man and Grey Beaver talking together.
He did not know what to do, it was all so unprecedented.
He did not know what to make of it.
He did not know White Fang's breed, so for weapon he took a light buggy-whip.
He did not like the man.
He did not look at things with wide vision.
He did not love Grey Beaver, yet, even in the face of his will and his anger, he was faithful to him.
He did not love his kind, and he was shrewd enough to escape hurt himself.
He did not mention the mutiny or the chest of buried treasure.
He did not mingle with it, but remained aloof, always himself, and was even feared by it.
He did not permit it.
He did not question it, nor puzzle over it.
He did not reason here.
He did not reason the question out in this man fashion.
He did not recognize the man, but he understood the words and was upon the veranda in a bound.
He did not rush a second time.
He did not snarl at her, nor show his teeth, when any leap of hers chanced to put her in advance of him.
He did not understand.
He did not understand.
He did not want such insignificant game.
He did not waste any time.
He did not wish to die; but he felt that he was going, for the fever was mounting higher and higher.
He did the cooking for the other men in the fort, the dish-washing and the drudgery.
He dodged this way and that, and curved and turned, but to no purpose.
He dogged his master's heels whenever he left the cabin, and haunted the front stoop when he remained inside.
He done save us so we all could get AWAY from here.
He doubted that he would arrive in time to do more than avenge.
He drew back, shaking his head.
He eluded their fangs.
He encountered a feathered whirlwind.
He essayed another circle.
He examined and admired the tattooing on the forehead and breast.
He experienced two great impulsions--to yield and to fight.
He extended the fire into a large circle.
He faced the boy, bristling and snarling, his sense of justice outraged.
He feared and disliked the beating he knew to be waiting for him.
He fed the dogs, cooked and ate his supper, and made his bed close to the fire.
He felt a vacancy in him, a need for the hush and quietude of the stream and the cave in the cliff.
He felt himself lifted from the ground.
He felt his hair rising upon his scalp.
He felt that the ill done White Fang was a debt incurred by man and that it must be paid.
He felt the lurking of danger, unseen and unguessed.
He flung it back, so that it struck the sled and bounced along until it fetched up on Bill's snowshoes.
He followed silently.
He forgot all about the unknown.
He forgot that in the covenant entered into between him and the gods they were pledged to care for him and defend him.
He fought from sheer joy, finding in it an expression of much that he felt and that otherwise was without speech.
He found himself an outcast in the midst of the populous camp.
He gathered her in his arms, whispering words of courage and love into her ears.
He gave a great start of fright.
He gave no protection.
He gave no sign, did not even snarl, but turned and followed after White Fang.
He gave no warning, with no snarl anticipated his own action.
He gave one yelp of consternation, and then her punishing jaws closed upon him.
He gave them the trail as a privilege indubitably theirs.
He glanced casually at the huddling dogs.
He glanced out of half-closed eyes at Jane, but he did not move.
He got out of bed carefully, so as not to disturb the sleep of his comrade, and threw more wood on the fire.
He got them, or got away, himself untouched in either event.
He grasped the frightened Mr.
He growled and tried to push by them.
He had a feeling of security that was belied by all his experience with men.
He had again been gathering fruit and this he laid at the entrance of her bower.
He had always been susceptible to the laughter of the gods.
He had always disliked to have it touched.
He had a method of accepting things, without questioning the why and wherefore.
He had been careless.
He had been ill-made in the making.
(He had been out all night on the meat-trail, and had but just then awakened.
He had been over this ground before, when it was bare, but now a village occupied it.
He had been waiting for this.
He had begun to limp, and this limp increased with the hours.
He had ceased from his growling and stood, head up, looking into their faces.
He had come into the world with a twisted body and a brute intelligence.
He had come to know quite thoroughly the world in which he lived.
He had covered barely a mile when he came upon the black warrior standing in a little open space.
He had done no wrong, broken no law, yet here was this boy preparing to give him a beating.
He had driven his teeth into the sacred flesh of one of them, and could expect nothing but a most terrible punishment.
He had eaten the lynx kitten.
He had eaten the ptarmigan chicks.
He had essayed to walk along the trunk of a fallen pine.
He had forgotten how to shift for himself.
He had found game, but he had not caught it.
He had given himself to Grey Beaver, and to Grey Beaver he considered he still belonged.
He had got for himself a hoof and part of the shin-bone, to which quite a bit of meat was attached.
He had got upon his feet, his ears cocked towards the door, and he was listening intently.
He had grown rich with his trading and stood in need of nothing.
He had grown stronger and wiser, and more confident.
He had had experience in puppy fights and was already something of a bully.
He had had time to recollect all that he had read of the ways of men and women in the books at the cabin.
He had in mind that no more would he run from the wanton attacks of old Tublat.
He had just destroyed little live things.
He had lain so long that his muscles had lost their cunning, and all the strength had gone out of them.
He had learned another lesson of his bondage.
He had learned control and poise, and he knew the law.
He had learned from experience.
He had learned much.
He had learned some more about the world.
He had learned the law.
He had learned to get along without her.
He had learned to laugh.
He had led his mother there, step by step, and now when she stopped, he tried to inveigle her farther.
He had left the cave and run down to the stream to drink.
He had long since learned that the gods were made angry when their dogs were killed.
He had neither whip nor club nor weapon.
He had never barked in his life, and he could not now learn to bark a welcome when his god approached.
He had never before called her by her given name.
He had never dreamed that his own kind consisted of more than One Eye, his mother, and himself.
He had never experienced the hurt of a fall.
He had never fought before with a dog with which he could not close.
He had never learned to play with them.
He had never seen such a dog before.
He had never seen water before.
He had no abstract ideas about justice and fair play.
He had no affection for Grey Beaver.
He had no conscious knowledge of death, but like every animal of the Wild, he possessed the instinct of death.
He had no experience of love.
He had no further serious trouble with the dogs.
He had not been born right, and he had not been helped any by the moulding he had received at the hands of society.
He had not been made for the close confinement wild beasts endure at the hands of men.
He had not eaten in forty hours, and he was weak with hunger.
He had not learned to be dependent on his kind for companionship.
He had not realized what a prisoner he had been.
He had not rushed forward after the manner of other dogs.
He had often wondered at the exact purpose of the lamps.
He had outgrown his mother.
He had recollected that there was such a thing in the world as his mother.
He had seen dogs change owners in the past, and he had seen the runaways beaten as he was being beaten.
He had seen fire, but only when Ara, the lightning, had destroyed some great tree.
He had sunk down on the snow in the circle of his blood and was plainly in the last gasp.
He had survived too many battles to be in doubt for a moment about what to do.
He had taken but a step, however, ere his quick ear caught the sound of approaching footsteps immediately without.
He had to be taken into account, that was all.
He had to forage for himself, and he foraged well, though he was oft-times a plague to the squaws in consequence.
He had to ignore the urges and promptings of instinct and reason, defy experience, give the lie to life itself.
He had to learn that he must not touch the chickens that belonged to other gods.
He had too great vitality.
He had travelled it often, and nothing had ever happened on it.
He had waited too often and futilely in the past for porcupines to unroll, to waste any more time.
He had wasted no time with his teeth.
he had worked an hour and a half on White Fang.
He handed the open book to the policeman.
He has lost nearly all the blood in his body.
He hasn't a chance  Weedon, telegraph at once to San Francisco for Doctor Nichols.
He has told  Clayton noticed that she did not return his familiar salutation, but he felt no misgivings on that score.
He hated all things.
He hated and feared their hands.
He hated the very wood of the pen that confined him.
He heard a noise in the tree above him.
He heard a shot, then two shots, in rapid succession, and he knew that Bill's ammunition was gone.
He heard Grey Beaver chuckle above him, and he knew the sound was not hostile.
He heard the shrill voices of the women, the gruff basses of the men, and the snarling of the dogs.
He held on to the wing and growled between his tight-clenched teeth.
He held out a small piece of meat.
He hid his head between his paws and yelped.
He hurled a pineapple at the ancient enemy of his people.
He ignored her existence whenever it was possible, and made it a point to keep out of her way.
He indicated the third person by a downward thrust of the thumb to the box on which they sat.
He is more than apt to wandering off aimlessly, regardless of danger or direction, and Mr.
He is only  The girl did not answer, but she felt her heart shrivel within her.
He is sitting in Alice's lap beside the table where I am writing--a happy, healthy, perfect child.
He is the great white giant who wore the diamond locket upon his breast.
He is the only son of Lord Greystoke, and some day will inherit the title and estates.
He kept awaking and cocking his ears at the bright world without, where the April sun was blazing across the snow.
He kept it in his hand and steadfastly proffered it.
He killed other dogs as easily as men killed mosquitoes.
He knew an overpowering desire for the protection and companionship of man.
He knew clearly what was to be done, and this he did by promptly eating the ptarmigan.
He knew his two brothers and his two sisters very well.
He knew it as though it had taken place before his eyes.
He knew laughter and the meaning of it.
He knew more about fighting than did any of the dogs that faced him.
He knew nothing of the brotherhood of man.
He knew not how nor why, yet he got his feel of the oncoming event from the gods themselves.
He knew only hate and lost himself in the passion of it.
He knew only that the velvet- furred kitten was meat, and he ate and waxed happier with every mouthful.
He knew only that they did threaten evil of some sort, and that it was best for him to keep out of their reach.
He knew that she was created to be protected, and that he was created to protect her.
He knew the hands of the gods, their proved mastery, their cunning to hurt.
He knew the injustice and greediness of the older dogs when meat or fish was thrown out to be eaten.
He knew the law of forage.
He knew the law too well to take it out of Grey Beaver; behind Grey Beaver were a club and godhead.
He knew the two men were safe enough from attack in so far as the lion was concerned.
He knew, too, that old Sabor was a L-I-O-N-E-S-S, and Histah a S-N-A-K-E, and Tantor an E-L-E-P-H-A-N-T.
He knew, too, that they seldom lost much time before consummating the fiendish purpose of their captures.
He knew why the ape had not killed her, and he commenced to compare his intentions with those of Terkoz.
He lay partly on his side, panting for breath.
He leaped a ditch, went through a rail fence, and fled across a field.
He leaped in with a flash of fangs that ripped down the side of the mastiff's neck.
He learned to adjust himself in many ways to his new mode of life.
He licked his chops and waited.
He lived again all his days with Beauty Smith and the fights he had fought.
He lived there three years.
He'll learn   She looked at White Fang, who snarled and bristled and glared malevolently.
He'll  The carriage drove on, and still Collie blocked White Fang's way.
He loaded one of the rifles and placed it within easy reach.
He looked at Kiche licking her puppy and stopping now and then to snarl at him.
He looked at the master, and he looked at the dogs.
He looked at them like a drunken man and maundered in strange, sleepy speech.
He looked outside, and half a dozen snow-birds fluttered across his field of vision.
He loved with single heart and refused to cheapen himself or his love.
He lurked in the forest, avoiding discovery and robbing the snares at the rare intervals when game was caught.
He made a futile rush at White Fang, clipping the empty air with an outraged snap.
He made one desperate attempt to pull out on the trail.
He made overtures to White Fang from the first.
He marveled at the sharp filed teeth.
He may be sitting right next to you  Porter, edging cautiously nearer to Mr.
He merely classified the things that hurt and the things that did not hurt.
He merely thrashed his team-mates.
He must be away, free, on his own legs, touching no living thing.
He must belong to the tribes which attacked us, or to  Jane blanched.
He must be nursed as you would nurse a human being, a sick child.
He must do his work quickly and get away.
He must find others to replace them.
He must have been jumped upon.
He must look into the matter.
He never allowed them any latitude.
He never chummed with other dogs.
He never forgot the hawk, and its moving shadow always sent him crouching into the nearest thicket.
He never knew defeat.
He never left this cell.
He never played and gambolled about with the other puppies of the camp.
He never ran to meet his god.
He never saw the sky nor the sunshine.
He never wasted his strength, never tussled.
He nodded cheerfully.
He no longer lived in a hostile environment.
He no longer was afraid of anything.
He notched the stick at each end and in the notches fastened strings of raw-hide.
He noticed that his cup was empty and started to reach for the pot.
He noticed that the women alone worked.
He now became the enemy of all things, and more ferocious than ever.
He now drew up its mate and stretched it forth again.
He now evinced displeasure at her repeated failures, and himself made a mighty spring upward.
He now saw it again; but it had taken upon itself a remarkable remoteness.
Henry acknowledged receipt of the information with a grunt that slid into a snore as he drifted back into sleep.
Henry grunted, and began unlacing his mocassins.
Henry indicated with his head a second pair, and a third.
Henry judged his case to be hopeless.
Henry leaped out of the blankets and to the dogs.
Henry left the cooking to come and see.
Henry looked about with great carefulness and shook his head.
Henry nodded his head approvingly.
Henry sat down on the sled and watched.
Henry, squatting over the fire and settling the pot of coffee with a piece of ice, nodded.
Henry whistled long and comprehendingly.
He obeyed, but with a rush, hurling himself upon the stranger who was dragging him away.
He obeyed his natural impulses until they ran him counter to some law.
He obeyed the impulse, but was checked by the master's voice.
He observed the boy lay down the axe and take up a stout club.
He, on the other hand, being the fastest-footed, was unafraid to venture anywhere.
He, on the other hand, learned that it was not necessary to use his teeth upon them.
He opened his pocket-book and counted out the bills.
He oppressed the weak, but he respected the strong.
He oppressed the weak with a vengeance.
He owed no allegiance to this strange and terrible god.
He passed a rope over his shoulder, a man-trace, and pulled with the dogs.
He passed out of the forest and into the moonlit open where were no shadows nor darknesses.
He paused and looked at her.
He paused at the mouth of the cave with a sudden shock of suspicion.
He paused beside Scott and touched him on the shoulder, saying ominously:   wedging with the revolver muzzle.
He picked it up in his mouth.
He picked the quarrel with the strange dog while the gang waited.
He placed his paw on one, and its movements were accelerated.
He plunged into the forest and followed the river bank down the stream.
He pointed his nose at the moon.
He puckered his brows into a frown of deep thought.
He put his hand upon her head, and she only crouched closer.
He quickly came to know much of the ways of the man-animals, but familiarity did not breed contempt.
He raged and snarled at them, or lay quietly and studied them with cold hatred.
He ran always on her right side.
He ran back to her, licked her face, and ran on again.
He ranged far and wide, and slept but little in the lair that had now become cheerless and miserable.
He ran into sticks and things.
He ran on a few steps, stopped, and looked back.
He reached hastily for a brand to throw at her.
Here and there he could see one curled up in the snow like a dog, taking the sleep that was now denied himself.
Here at last was one of his own kind; of that he was positive.
He received it as a sign.
He recognised One Ear's yell of pain and terror, and he heard a wolf-cry that bespoke a stricken animal.
He recollected something, dropped the burden, and trotted back to where he had left the ptarmigan.
He regarded her carefully and dubiously, yet desirefully.
Here Grey Beaver stopped.
Here he looks to find a tiny particle of the demolished larva, ofttimes not more than a speck of moisture.
Here, in Sierra Vista, which was the name of Judge Scott's place, White Fang quickly began to make himself at home.
Here, in the abandoned lair, he settled down and rested for a day.
Here, in the old lair, he encountered Kiche.
Here, in the running stream where ice was beginning to form, he hid his trail.
Here is what he read:  WEST COAST OF AFRICA, ABOUT 10 DEGREES SOUTH LATITUDE.
Here, leading up the left fork, he came upon a fresh track.
He remembered her vaguely, but he _remembered_ her, and that was more than could be said for her.
He removed his hunting knife from its sheath and handed it to her hilt first, again motioning her into the bower.
Here, safe from interruption, the tribe often gathered.
He rested for two days, and then ventured forth from the cave again.
Here stood the old Hudson's Bay Company fort; and here were many Indians, much food, and unprecedented excitement.
Here Tarzan released them, and, pointing toward the little building, vanished into the jungle beside them.
Here the cub lost momentum.
Here there were no white men, no soldiers, nor any rubber or ivory to be gathered for cruel and thankless taskmasters.
Here the very air was palpitant with life.
He revelled in the vengeance he wreaked upon his kind.
Here was danger, some treachery or something.
Here was fear, and it did not require his instinct to tell him of it.
Here was indubitable evidence.
Here was little chance for swimming.
Here was mastery and power, something far and away beyond him.
Here was meat and life, and it was guarded by no mysterious fires nor flying missiles of flame.
Here was no meat, nothing but a threatening and inedible silence.
Here was no warm side of a tepee against which to snuggle.
Here was some thing, not wood nor iron, upon which to wreak his hate.
Here was the ancient marauder up to his old tricks again.
Here was the secret of the terrible destructiveness of The Archer's tiny missiles.
Her first words filled Clayton with vague apprehension.
Her great padded feet fell soft and noiseless on the narrow trail.
Her head was high in ever alert attention; her long tail moved slowly in sinuous and graceful undulations.
Her instinctive fear of the father of her progeny was toning down.
He ripped them open or split their skulls with shrewdly driven blows of his great hoofs.
Her joy at finding him seemed even greater than his joy at being found.
Her mate had slowly relaxed from his crouch and was watching her.
Her meaning was forgotten.
Her meat lay before her, and Sabor had only to worm her way through the lattice to claim it.
Her mouth opened, the saliva drooled forth, and she licked her chops with the pleasure of anticipation.
her nerves a-tingle at the thought that she spoke of her own.
He roared out his hideous challenge time and again.
Her officers were swarthy bullies, hating and hated by their crew.
He rose up, snarling, striking out with his paws.
Her sharp, menacing cry sent the hair bristling along his back, and he snarled warningly at her.
Her sister seconded her, and a chorus of approval arose from around the table.
Her stick was tied to a peg in the ground and she could not follow him.
Her temper was now shorter than ever; but he had become more patient than ever and more solicitous.
Her three suitors all bore the marks of her teeth.
He rubbed his eyes and looked at them more sharply.
He rushed in and snapped and slashed on the instant, without notice, before his foe could prepare to meet him.
Her wild scream was not a warning.
He's all hunky with the officials.
He sank his tiny teeth into one of the wings and pulled and tugged sturdily.
He's  As the man's hand approached his neck, White Fang bristled and snarled and crouched down.
He sat down as before, in the same spot, several feet away.
He sat down beside White Fang, holding the end of the thong in his hand.
He sat down to consider, listening to the silence of the forest and perturbed by it.
He sat for a long while upon the sled.
He sat up on his haunches and ki-yi'd.
He saved himself by springing back, the jaws snapping together a scant six inches from his thigh.
He saw a weasel leaping swiftly away from him.
He saw Beauty Smith go away and return with a stout club.
He saw no human face, spoke to no human thing.
He saw that these people were more wicked than his own apes, and as savage and cruel as Sabor, herself.
He saw the camp again, the tepees, and the blaze of the fires.
He saw the females and the young scamper to the safety of the trees.
He saw the law operating around him on every side.
He scrambled backward, bursting out in an astonished explosion of ki-yi's.
He scrambled to his feet and rushed toward her.
He seemed made to run on for ever.
He seemed to be framing a question with his lips.
He seized it and attempted to use it as he had seen the sailors do.
He sensed the evil in him, and feared the extended hand and the attempts at soft-spoken speech.
He set to work to carry out a new idea that had come to him.
He's got intelligence and we've  woodpile.
He shook his fist angrily at the gleaming eyes, and began securely to prop his moccasins before the fire.
He shoved, and shoved hard, till the grating of the steel against the locked teeth could be distinctly heard.
He shrank down under it.
He's just come through hell, an' this is the first time he's ben loose.
He slept long hours and dreamed much, and through his mind passed an unending pageant of Northland visions.
He slowed down to an alert and mincing walk and then stopped.
He slunk forlornly through the deserted camp, smelling the rubbish-heaps and the discarded rags and tags of the gods.
He smelled it and found it so recent that he crouched swiftly, and looked in the direction in which it disappeared.
He smelled the meat carefully; but he did not look at it.
He snarled and bristled and flattened his ears.
He snarled involuntarily as he felt her teeth in his shoulder, but beyond this made no offer to hurt her.
He snarled more menacingly, crouched still lower, and still the hand descended.
He snarled softly up at the thing of fear, watching keenly the deportment of the hands.
He sorrowed too loudly and woke up Grey Beaver, who beat him.
He spasmodically ripped and tore with his fangs for a space.
He spoke softly to White Fang until he had quieted him, then his voice became firm.
He sprang away from it, and from a distance studied it suspiciously.
He sprang into the water and swam after it, deaf to the sharp cries of Grey Beaver to return.
He sprang to the side.
He sprang upon White Fang and began savagely to kick him.
He spurned him savagely with his foot.
He stamped them into the snow under him in the wallowing struggle.
He started to get up, then looked back to his mate again, and settled down and dozed.
He stepped away from the rifle, and White Fang's lifted lips descended, covering his teeth.
He stepped boldly out on it; and went down, crying with fear, into the embrace of the unknown.
He still held her by the wing, and they lay on the ground and looked at each other.
He stole a glance upward.
He stood, gazing stupidly across at White Fang, the raw, red shin-bone between them.
He stood on his dignity, and when they attempted it, his warning snarl and bristling mane were anything but playful.
He stood still, ears pricked forward, alert and curious, surveying the strange animal that faced him.
He stood upon his right to go his way unmolested and to give trail to no dog.
He stood, watching and waiting.
He stood where he had arisen, opened his mouth, and broke out the long, heart-broken puppy wail.
He stopped beside her, feeling for her pulse and then listening for her heartbeats.
He straightened up in time to see a dim form disappearing across the snow into the shelter of the dark.
He struck, after his custom, without warning.
He struck Cherokee about the head savagely again and again.
He suddenly thrust his head forward and nudged his way in between the master's arm and body.
He swung the club smartly, stopping the rush midway and smashing White Fang down upon the ground.
He talked softly and soothingly, with a gentleness that somehow, somewhere, touched White Fang.
He talked to White Fang as White Fang had never been talked to before.
He tightened his grip upon the protesting professor and increased his speed.
He took a step into the ring and pointed his finger at White Fang.
He took his woman in his arms and carried her into the jungle.
He took his woman in his arms and smothered her upturned, panting lips with kisses.
He took the meat into his mouth and swallowed it.
He took the precaution to sheer off from the two watching gods, and walked carefully to the corner of the cabin.
He, too, was lying on his side.
He, too, was silent--motionless as a graven image.
He traveled very slowly, sleeping in the jungle at night, and reaching his cabin late the following morning.
He travelled very clumsily.
He tried to back away from her, oblivious to the fact that by his hold on her he dragged her after him.
He tried to growl threateningly, ferociously.
He tried to rise to his feet, and after several attempts fell down from weakness.
He tried to scramble up the side of the cabin, and succeeded in catching a fleeting hold upon the thatched roof.
He tried to sniff noses with her, but she retreated playfully and coyly.
He tugged still harder, and repeatedly, until the whole tepee was in motion.
het up about it.
He turned and leaped silently among his enemies.
He turned and trotted reluctantly away.
He turned his head and blinked at the men who shouted, at the same time wagging his stump of a tail good-naturedly.
He turned it over with his paw.
He turned red as he compared it with the beautiful broad nostrils of his companion.
he used so often glide from Tarzan's tongue.
He uttered a glad little cry and bounded to meet her, while the man-animals went back hastily several steps.
He visited Grey Beaver's camp often, and hidden under his coat was always a black bottle or so.
He waited at a distance; but he always waited, was always there.
He waited his opportunity to slink out of camp to the woods.
He waited until he was sure of striking before the squirrel could gain a tree-refuge.
He walked boldly about the camp, inflicting punishment in the night for what he had suffered in the day.
He walked less softly among the grown dogs; his attitude toward them was less compromising.
He walked slowly and cautiously, prepared to be assailed at any moment.
He wanted to get away from everything that might remind him of Jane.
He was a carnivorous animal.
He was adjusting himself.
He was a ferocious man.
He was a fierce little cub.
He was afraid of them.
He was a good runner, swifter than any puppy of his size, and swifter than Lip-lip.
He was always a little demon of fury when he chanced upon a stray ptarmigan.
He was always striving to attain it.
He was a man and a monstrosity, as fearful a thing of fear as ever gibbered in the visions of a maddened brain.
He was a M-A-N, they were A-P-E-S, and the little apes which scurried through the forest top were M-O-N-K-E-Y-S.
He was a monstrous tyrant.
He was aroused by her snarling.
He was a small man to begin with; and upon his meagre frame was deposited an even more strikingly meagre head.
He was a soldier of France, and he would teach these beasts how an officer and a gentleman died.
He was astounded at the suddenness of it.
He was a strange animal, an intruder; and her present litter of puppies gave her the right to resent such intrusion.
He was awakened from self-consciousness, but as he drew near, his eyes took on a strange expression.
He was aware only of curiosity in all the things about him.
He was beaten down to movelessness by an overwhelming sense of his own weakness and littleness.
He was beginning the ascent.
He was beset on either side by the merciless fangs of his erstwhile comrades.
He was better fitted for the life than the other dogs, for he had the training of his cubhood to guide him.
He was bewildered by the tremendous and endless rush and movement of things.
He was caught in the miniature rapid at the bottom of the pool.
He was confused and blinded by the rush of it and the beat of angry wings.
He was curious to observe them, fearful of being noticed by them.
He was dazzled by it.
He was dominated by this mere flesh-love of life.
He was even gorged from his latest kill.
He was fighting, tearing at a live thing that was striking at him.
He was given no rest.
He was going, and something told her that it was because he thought her people were in danger.
He was gone--and Jane turned to walk across the clearing to the cabin.
He was gone; but this time no fear assailed her for she knew that he would return.
He was gone eight hours, and he came back through the darkness hungrier than when he had started.
He was greeted with snarls by his kind, with curses and stones by his gods.
He was hungry, and he remembered pieces of meat and fish that had been thrown him.
He was in an iron tomb, buried alive.
He was in a panic of terror.
He was in a rage himself--a sane rage.
He was indeed an officer and a gentleman--a title conferred on many, but deserved by so few.
He was innocent of the crime for which he was sentenced.
He was in too quickly for that, and, if he missed, was out again too quickly.
He was jealous of the isolation in which he kept himself in the midst of the pack, and he fought often to maintain it.
He was knocked off his feet.
He was looking to see if these creatures had dropped anything which he might like to own.
He was magnificently terrible.
He was nearly ten before he commenced to realize that a great difference existed between himself and his fellows.
He was never disturbed over why a thing happened.
He was never in the way, never extravagant nor foolish in the expression of his love.
He was never known to lose his footing.
He was no fool himself, and whatever vengeance he desired to wreak, he could wait until he caught White Fang alone.
He was not afraid, but merely lazy.
He was not conscious of them.
He was not interested in the location of the encounter, for he judged that that would soon be over.
He was not responsible.
He was not satisfied, and he continued to smell the air, striving to understand the message borne upon it to him.
He was not used to fighting with that kind of dog, and he was waiting for them to bring on the real dog.
He was obeying the will of the gods.
He was perpetually departing on yard-long adventures toward the cave's entrance, and as perpetually being driven back.
He was plainly perplexed, and he came back again, pausing a dozen feet away and regarding the two men intently.
He was pre-eminently unbeautiful.
He was put into a baggage-car by the master, chained in a corner in the midst of heaped trunks and valises.
He was quick in his classification, for he knew them at once for man-animal noises.
He was regarded as the most fearful of wild beasts, and this was borne in to him through the bars of the cage.
He was right above them when he discovered them.
He was silent for a moment.
He was single-purposed, and entertained but one thought or desire at a time.
He was sprawling along between some bushes, when he heard a sharp intimidating cry.
He was sprawling through solidity.
He was still whimpering when the mother-weasel reappeared.
He was surprised, and looked at them in a puzzled way.
He was surprised that he had no fever.
He was suspicious of them.
He was the food, and the sight of him excited in her the gustatory sensations.
He was the one little grey cub of the litter.
He was thinking rapidly.
He was thrilling and exulting in ways new to him and greater to him than any he had known before.
He was too busy and happy to know that he was happy.
He was too old, too firmly moulded, to become adept at expressing himself in new ways.
He was too ponderous and slow.
He was too quick for them, too formidable, too wise.
He was too quick for the others.
He was too self-possessed, too strongly poised in his own isolation.
He was very handsome and every inch a gentleman.
He was very much afraid.
He was very much alive, very happy, and very proud of himself.
He was very nervous.
He was very weak, and when he reached the lawn he lay down and rested for a while.
He was wise, and yet in the nature of him there were forces greater than wisdom.
He was worried and apprehensive, yet the camp lured his mate and she was loath to depart.
He watched his moving muscles and was interested in the cunning mechanism of his fingers.
He watched the door for his antagonist to enter.
He watched the man-animals coming and going and moving about the camp.
He went down past the blasted pine, crossed the open space, and trotted in amongst the trees.
He went up the frozen bed of the stream, where the snow, shaded by the trees, was yet hard and crystalline.
He whined pleadingly, and scurried playfully in and out of the underbrush.
He whistled to himself, softly, first with surprise, and then, at the end, with admiration.
He winced but held on.
He wondered by what manner of miracle she had been spared.
He wondered if she would fear him, and the thought all but caused him to relinquish his plan.
He wondered if they would spring upon their meat while it was still alive.
He wondered why he felt so great an interest in these people--why he had gone to such pains to save the three men.
He wondered why he had not thought of it before.
He wondered why they had dug a great hole in the ground merely to bury dry bones.
He would act as he imagined the men in the books would have acted were they in his place.
He would attempt to reproduce some of the little bugs that scrambled over the pages of his books.
He would be a mighty hunter, also.
He would follow this savage creature for a while and know from whence he came.
He would go and see.
He would go away, far into the jungle and join his tribe.
He would have to learn the reality of a thing before he could put his faith into it.
He would not go up to them.
He would not have ventured so long a trip had he not expected generous profits.
He would now destroy a big live thing.
He would take a look within, thought Tarzan, and so, cautiously, he approached the low thatched building.
He wrote:   I am Tarzan of the Apes.
He yelped in his fright.
He yielded till the hand almost touched him.
Higher crept the steel forearms of the ape-man about the back of Sabor's neck.
High hills shut it off on three sides, the ocean on the fourth.
His actions were theirs to command.
His allegiance to man seemed somehow a law of his being greater than the love of liberty, of kind and kin.
His arms were folded, one above the other, across his face and throat.
His arm was passed beneath Terkoz's arm from behind and his hand and forearm encircled the back of Terkoz's neck.
His attempt to maintain his dignity was heroic.
His blood might pay off a mortgage or send a son to college.
His body leaned forward from the hips.
His body was theirs to maul, to stamp upon, to tolerate.
His bondage had softened him.
His books and pencils strewed the floor.
His brain told him that the chest contained something valuable, or the men would not have hidden it.
His brain worked in dim ways.
His carriage was one of mingled triumph and caution.
His chin fell forward on his chest.
His clutch on life was too strong.
His conclusion was that things were not always what they appeared to be.
His cowardly rages made them dread a shot in the back or poison in their coffee.
His daughter watched him with a pathetic smile upon her lips, and then turning to Mr.
His desire to kill burned fiercely in his wild breast, but his desire to learn was even greater.
His development was in the direction of power.
His dream was merging into something else--he knew not what; but through it all, following him, persisted the howling.
His early training, when he fought with Lip-lip and the whole puppy-pack, stood him in good stead.
His enemy was too big.
His enormous shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles.
His eyelids drooped and went shut, and his whole body seemed to relax and flatten out upon the floor.
His eyes fluttered and went shut.
His eyes never left the face of the advancing man.
His eyes rested upon the open doorway of a nearby hut.
His eyes saw correctly, and the nerves carried the vision correctly to his brain.
His eyes were closed but few minutes when the burn of the flame on his flesh awakened him.
His eyes were half closed, and the surface of them was glassy.
His eyes were large, and between them was the distance of two eyes.
His eyes were likewise greeted by White Fang, but about the latter there were no signs of shame nor guilt.
His face, in relation to the rest of him, was prodigious.
His face was very handsome--the handsomest, thought D'Arnot, that he had ever seen.
His fangs be white, and White Fang shall be his name.
His father and mother lived wholly upon meat.
His favourite way of ignoring her was to lie down, with his head on his fore-paws, and pretend sleep.
His feet clung to the earth with the same tenacity that he clung to life.
his first name, and in general he was known in the country as Beauty Smith.
His forgotten cubhood, all that was associated with that familiar snarl, rushed back to him.
His free nature asserted itself, and he showed his teeth and snarled fearlessly in the face of the wrathful god.
His god was preparing for another flight.
His grey eyes seemed metallic and steel-like as they flashed upon the crowd.
His hair bristled involuntarily; his lips writhed back and his little fangs were bared.
His hair was standing out all over him in tufts where her teeth had mauled.
His handsome coat was draggled.
His heart leaped for joy.
His heart was filled with happiness.
His heredity was a life-stuff that may be likened to clay.
His hind-legs still rested on the cave- lip, so he fell forward head downward.
His hunting had been good, and for a week he had eaten his fill.
His instinct had been true.
His instinct would not permit him to attack her, while her persistence would not permit him to ignore her.
His intention was apparent enough.
His iron-like body ignored fatigue.
His jaws closed together.
His jaws were apart, and through them the tongue protruded, draggled and limp.
His little body rounded out with the meat he now ate; but the food had come too late for her.
His lost eye and his scarred muzzle bore evidence to the nature of his experience.
His love partook of the nature of worship, dumb, inarticulate, a silent adoration.
His manner clearly denoted that he had never before seen them, nor imagined that the locket opened.
His master rarely fed him.
His mastery was rigid as steel.
His mate looked at him anxiously.
His mate warned him irritably away, and he curled up and slept in the entrance.
His method was to drive straight at the intruder, and to sink his teeth in if he could.
His misty little mind had already made an unconscious classification.
His mother and fear impelled him to keep away from the white wall.
His mother heard it too.
His mother verified it.
His muzzle went up, his tail stiffened, and his nostrils dilated as he scented the air.
His nose and tongue still hurt, but he was perplexed by a greater trouble.
His old code of conduct was changing.
His only hope lay in reaching the village of Mbonga as quickly as his legs would carry him.
His outlook was bleak and materialistic.
His own kind included his mother and himself.
His progress was a series of yelps, from which might have been adduced the number of rocks he encountered.
His progress was marked by snarl and snap and growl.
His puppyhood and the instinct of submission took charge of him.
His rages and battles were pleasures.
His rope he now held coiled in his right hand; he was almost ready for the kill.
His school of life had been sterner, and he was himself of sterner stuff.
His shoulders, relaxed and drooping, and his head on his knees advertised that he had given up the struggle.
His shoulder was exposed.
His sliding gait had been deceptively swift, but it was as nothing to the speed at which he now ran.
His soft snarl grew tense and harsh.
His spear hand went far back the muscles rolled, lightning-like, beneath the sleek hide.
His strange life had left him neither morose nor bloodthirsty.
His teeth closed upon the rabbit, and he bore it back to earth with him.
His teeth, in passing, burst the wall of the great vein of the throat.
His temper had been savage by birth, but it became more savage under this unending persecution.
His thoughts were of the beautiful white girl.
His throat was bitten.
His tiny rages were much more terrible than theirs.
His tone was enough.
His voice sounded hoarse and unreal, and he had spoken with apparent effort.
His voice was soft and soothing.
His was a better, far better, nervous, mental, and muscular co-ordination.
His was the luck of the beginner.
His weapons and shields and other little store of treasures were littered about.
His whole demeanour, every action, was stamped with this purpose.
His whole life he had kept aloof from his kind, and he still desired to keep aloof.
His wildest dreams had not exceeded a hundred per cent.
His wild flight ceased abruptly.
His wolfish appearance caught their eyes at once, and they pointed him out to one another.
His world was gloomy; but he did not know that, for he knew no other world.
His world was very small.
Holding him suspended with one hand, with the other hand he proceeded to give him a beating.
Holding his club prepared to strike, he drew in on his cornered quarry.
Horrors!  The thing was quite close now.
Horta wheeled to charge his enemy once more; a dozen steps he took, then he staggered and fell upon his side.
How beautiful her features!  How delicate her snowy skin!  She was writing at Tarzan's own table beneath the window.
How could he make the man understand?  Then he took a pencil and made a tiny point upon the shore of Africa.
How did D'Arnot come to have his book?  Presently D'Arnot stopped at a page on which were five tiny little smudges.
How easy it would be to circle back to the coast, and then make toward the south and his own jungle and cabin.
How he should have liked to have returned to the tribe to parade before their envious gaze this wondrous finery.
How he should like to have more of those little death-dealing slivers.
How it happened was sufficient for him.
How snug he would have been beneath the heavy coat of Sabor! And so was added a further incentive to the adventure.
How strange it seemed that to a full-grown white man an envelope was a mystery.
How stupid of her not to have thought of that solution before.
Human kindness was like a sun shining upon him, and he flourished like a flower planted in good soil.
Hunger he had known; and when he could not appease his hunger he had felt restriction.
Hunger was changing them from human beasts to wild beasts.
I am afraid that  D'Arnot shook his head.
I am buying you, and I knew that you knew it, but I thought you would prefer to pretend that it was otherwise.
I am just learning it,  himself.
I am Paul d'Arnot, Lieutenant in the navy of France.
I am sorry now that we  They found their quarters in a bad state of disorder.
I am Tarzan of the Apes--mighty fighter.
I am the greatest of the jungle fighters.
I am the mightiest of the jungle fighters.
I am very tired now, so I shall go to my funny bed of grasses which Mr.
I came back to the bag afterward    Henry stopped eating to glance across the fire and count the dogs.
I could never face you nor any other honest person if I repudiated my promise to Mr.
idea that the venture would succeed.
I do not know his name.
I do not think that I could much longer have endured the pathos of his quiet and uncomplaining grief.
I don't care for any fuss or  The girl turned cold, but she held her head bravely.
I don't care whether you are an English lord or not.
I don't feel right, somehow.
I don't know how to   Tim Keenan continued standing over him, but Scott took no further notice of his presence.
I don't like the looks of it.
If Beauty Smith had in him a devil, White Fang had another; and the two of them raged against each other unceasingly.
If ever a creature was the enemy of its kind, White Fang was that creature.
If for Snipes, then our ape friend is a friend indeed.
If he belonged to some savage tribe he had a savage wife--a dozen of them perhaps--and wild, half-caste children.
If he didn't bankrupt me with damaged suits, the   Weedon Scott looked at him suspiciously.
If he should never touch her again, she reasoned, she would never feel attracted toward him.
If he turned upon them, Mit-sah would throw the stinging lash of the whip into his face.
If not amity, at least neutrality must obtain.
If one feigns death lions and lionesses are supposed to ignore one, according to Mr.
I found a note you wrote me lying among the leaves beneath a tree near the cabin.
If so he must speak English.
If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted.
If the sight of him drove these strange dogs upon him, so much the better for him, so much the worse for them.
If they did not want it why did they not merely throw it into the water?  That would have been much easier.
If this man- animal intended harm, White Fang knew that he could not escape it.
If you go, I shall go     It took a long time to make him understand even imperfectly.
If you want to keep out of trouble, you'll steer clear of him, that's my talk.
I gave one fish to each dog, an',   six fish.
I had hoped, er--I had thought or--er--how very happy  often admonished my pupils to count ten before speaking.
I had this story from one who had no business to tell it to me, or to any other.
I have always the feeling   relief marking his voice.
I have enough money for two--enough for twenty.
I have not seen him, but Mr.
I have the license and here is the preacher.
I know you better than you think I know you.
Immediately a boat's crew was ordered out and an attempt was successfully made to board the Arrow.
Immediately after him came a white body, but this one alighted erect.
Immediately after such fights he had always been imprisoned again.
In about an hour they returned and reported deep water through the passage as well as far into the little basin.
In acknowledgment of fealty, he proceeded to take upon himself the guardianship of his master's property.
In addition to being exhibited he was a professional fighting animal.
In advance of the dogs, on wide snowshoes, toiled a man.
In a few minutes more Tarzan swung into the trees above Mbonga's village.
In agony the man watched, fearful to launch his spear, powerless to fly.
In a larger circle squatted the women, yelling and beating upon drums.
In a little while, One Eye noticed that the quills were drooping and that a great quivering had set up.
In all the days he had lived it had not worked so hard as on this one day.
In a lofty way he received the attentions of the multitudes of strange gods.
In an hour he struck the trail again, and coming to earth examined the soil minutely.
In an instant Esmeralda, Professor Porter and Mr.
In an instant the neck would break.
In an instant they were in a hand-to-hand fight with some fifty black warriors of Mbonga's village.
In another instant the figure of a woman darkened the entrance of the hut.
In another moment he was at the cabin, and after a short time had again thrown the latch and entered.
In another moment he was gone, and the terror-stricken preacher with him.
In another moment he would have passed by and this strange narrative would never have been recorded.
In a second book which she hurriedly examined was the single name, GREYSTOKE.
In a way he was prepared to do this.
In camp he kept close to Mit-sah or Grey Beaver or Kloo-kooch.
Incidentally, he had won ten thousand francs, for D'Arnot insisted that he keep it all.
Incidentally, the sled went faster, and thus, by cunning indirection, did man increase his mastery over the beasts.
In consequence, his forearm was ripped open to the bone.
In consequence, the strange dogs he encountered had no chance against him.
In dim ways he recognised in man the animal that had fought itself to primacy over the other animals of the Wild.
In doing this they had protected both themselves and the gods whose companionship they shared.
In each instance the animal died almost instantly, for Kulonga's poison was very fresh and very deadly.
In eight of them lay the more seriously wounded, while two swung beneath the weight of the dead.
I never knew who my.
In fact, he never regarded the members of the family in any other light than possessions of the love-master.
In fact, the grey cub was not given to thinking--at least, to the kind of thinking customary of men.
In fact, when he had but partly learned the law, his impression was that he must leave all live things alone.
In half an hour he was back with fruit and a hollow gourd-like vegetable filled with water.
In his ears the camp-sounds and cries were ringing loud.
In his hand was his slender bow to which he had fitted one of his death dealing arrows.
In his leisure Clayton read, often aloud to his wife, from the store of books he had brought for their new home.
In his little evil brain he sought for some excuse to wreak his hatred upon Tarzan.
In his nostrils was the smell of the camp-smoke.
In his savage, untutored breast new emotions were stirring.
In his voice was kindness--something of which White Fang had no experience whatever.
In midsummer White Fang had an experience.
In neither his father nor his mother was there any weakness, nor in the generations before them.
Inoffensive ranchers in remote valleys were held up by armed men and compelled to identify themselves.
In order to discover the necessary area, Nature had given him an enormous prognathous jaw.
In order to make the exhibition interesting, he was kept in a rage most of the time.
In past experience, especially in dealing with squaws, meat and punishment had often been disastrously related.
In point of fact, the cuff was rarely administered.
In reality, this was the act of classification.
In return, he guarded the god's property, defended his body, worked for him, and obeyed him.
In San Quentin prison he had proved incorrigible.
In short, Beauty Smith was a monstrosity, and the blame of it lay elsewhere.
Inside the cabin the two men had just gone to bed.
Inside this circle he crouched, his sleeping outfit under him as a protection against the melting snow.
In silence the party advanced toward the cabin.
In spite of herself she began to entertain doubts and fears.
In spite of himself and all the pricking warnings of his instinct, White Fang began to have confidence in this god.
In spite of the menacing hand, the voice inspired confidence.
Instantly, Clayton, followed by the two old men, plunged into the jungle, calling the girl's name aloud.
Instantly her tears ceased.
Instead he grasped his friend's arm and hastened him forward in the direction of the cabin.
Instead he perched lightly upon a smaller branch twenty feet above the raging captive.
Instead, he pointed towards the wall of darkness that pressed about them from every side.
Instead he raised his head gently from the ground, nodding it back and forth a half dozen times.
Instead she insisted that he accept, and, indeed, take her with him.
Instead, the crowd began sarcastically to cheer him on and showered him with facetious advice.
Instead, with all the assurance that deductive reasoning from a wrong premise induces in one, Mr.
Instinct and law demanded of him obedience.
Instinctively the girl shuddered, and shrank closer to the black woman.
In strange villages he had encountered the hands of the children and learned that they were cruel to hurt.
In Tarzan's clever little mind many thoughts revolved, and back of these was his divine power of reason.
In that instant the lynx struck.
In that moment White Fang's free nature flashed forth again, and he sank his teeth into the moccasined foot.
In that moment White Fang was in upon him and out, in passing ripping his trimmed remnant of an ear.
In the afternoon comes Thaka, possibly, to complain that old Mungo has stolen his new wife.
In the afternoon he blundered upon a ptarmigan.
In the brilliant moonlight Tarzan witnessed the whole mad carnival of rage.
In the cabin he lay on the floor near the stove, without interest in food, in Matt, nor in life.
In the center of the greensward a young woman sat upon a little mound of earth, and beside her sat a young giant.
In the centre of the space it had occupied, he sat down.
In the distance were several buildings surrounded by a strong palisade.
In the end he worked out the complete law.
In the end his money and goods and temper were all gone.
In the end, the god tossed the meat on the snow at White Fang's feet.
In the end, the master laughed him out of his dignity.
In the end, while Beauty Smith beat White Fang back with a club, the mastiff was dragged out by its owner.
In the first place he was very suspicious of them.
In the full glare of the afternoon light, crouching in the entrance of the cave, the cub saw the lynx-mother.
In the grass at the entrance to her bower she saw the imprint of his body where he had lain all night to guard her.
In the house Professor Porter and Mr.
In the interval the city had disappeared.
In their presence Mit-sah would give him meat and would give it to him only.
In the main, so efficient a fighter had he become, he went his way unscathed.
In the matter of food, thought Tarzan, they had no need to worry--he would provide, and he did.
In the matter of meat, his luck had been all in the beginning.
In the meantime, Bill had bethought himself of the rifle.
In the meantime, he accepted all the punishment the other could deal him.
In the meantime he would wait and see.
In the meantime the beasts within the cabin were warily examining the contents of this strange lair.
In the meantime the canoe had drifted down the stream.
In the meantime the love-master was patting White Fang and talking to him.
In the meantime the newspapers were read at Sierra Vista, not so much with interest as with anxiety.
In the meantime the rabbit danced above them in the air.
In the middle of it, White Fang, rushing in, sank his teeth into Lip-lip's hind leg.
In the midst of it, he heard something.
In the morning it was Henry who awoke first and routed his companion out of bed.
In the morning the door opened and Matt stepped outside.
In them, too, was greed for the toothsome dainty the boy carried.
In the natural course of things there were exceptions to this.
In the nature of things, and of intercourse with gods, something terrible awaited him.
In the night-time, after they had gone to roost, he climbed to the top of a pile of newly hauled lumber.
In the Northland, the only domesticated animal was the dog.
In the old days he would have sprung upon White Fang in a fury of righteous wrath.
In the rear were a hundred warriors, similar in all respects to the advance guard.
In the same way he accepted that his father could disappear into walls.
In the same way, he came to tolerate Matt--as a possession of his master.
In the same way he resented his mother being tied with a stick, even though it was done by the superior man-animals.
In the silence that followed, the low, half-sobbing whine was heard at the door and then the long, questing sniff.
In the stern of the boat, as it drew nearer, Tarzan saw the rat-faced man.
In the summer the fish failed.
In the third year of his life there came a great famine to the Mackenzie Indians.
In the time before he was made leader of the team, the pack had learned to get out of his way.
In the Wild he had hunted live meat that was infinitely timid, and he knew the advantage of surprise.
In the Wild the time of a mother with her young is short; but under the dominion of man it is sometimes even shorter.
In the winter the cariboo forsook their accustomed track.
In the worst pinches of the famine he stole back to the fires of the gods.
in this good year 1888 it is the least likely of happenings.
In this manner it came about that he fought all sizes and breeds of dogs.
In this time of misery, White Fang, too, stole away into the woods.
In this village, after the custom of all dogs in all villages, White Fang went foraging, for food.
In time, the unknown, as a thing of terror and menace ever impending, faded away.
Into his snarl he incorporated all that was vicious, malignant, and horrible.
Into the air he lifted his body in the spring that landed him on the strange god's back.
In turn he was an object of great curiosity to them.
In vague ways it was borne in upon him that a change was impending.
In vain he strove to drive them back.
I realize the danger which must follow, but  borrowing trouble.
Irresponsibility had weakened him.
I saw the sailors bury it, and, ape-like, I had to dig it up and bury it again elsewhere.
is deeper than before, for I have thought much of late of the possibility of that cabin having been my birthplace.
I see now  There was just the faintest tinge of bitterness in his voice.
I shall be played with no longer.
I shall leave the decision to you, for you know best  good man.
I should hate to trust its findings further than to differentiate between individuals.
It affected their minds as the many atmospheres of deep water affect the body of the diver.
Italian, Spanish and German brought similar discouragement.
It attracted him as a candle attracts a moth.
It became his chief delight in life, as it became White Fang's chief torment.
It began to look as though the battle were over.
It began with _like_ and out of it slowly developed.
It bound his movements, restricted his freedom.
It breathed of power.
It but grazed her side.
It can do no worse, at any rate, than to leave it still a mystery.
It could have been as revolting to him as is cannibalism to us.
It cried out with terror, at the same time snarling, and scrambled back to cool its paws in the snow.
It crushed them with the weight of unending vastness and unalterable decree.
It did not enter his head that in the Southland it was otherwise.
It did not occur to him that this fearlessness was founded upon experience and knowledge.
It did not require much exertion to pick these quarrels.
It did not take him long to make up his mind.
It drew him as the light, in the mouth of the cave had drawn him in his early puppyhood.
I tell you right now, Henry, that critter's the cause of all our trouble.
It flowed along smoothly, and neither fear nor foe lurked by the way.
It followed down after him, pressing more closely against him.
It gave him a tremendous advantage over his antagonists.
It grew more nervous and excited every moment.
It had become evident to Tarzan that without money one must die.
It had been an irresistible attraction before ever his eyes opened and looked upon it.
It had been nothing more than a passing hallucination, super-induced by excitement and by personal contact.
It had been ripped almost in half, and was still bleeding profusely.
It had come down to him from a remote ancestry through a thousand thousand lives.
It had gripped savagely hold of him and was about to wreak upon him some terrific hurt.
It had happened many times, yet each time it was as fresh a surprise as ever to him.
It had no hair protection.
It had stopped, and the master was alighting.
I thank you for what you have done for me.
I therefore ask that you leave the entire matter in my hands until Monsieur Desquerc, our expert returns.
I thought we'd never reach  No one seemed to enthuse much.
It hummed and buzzed unceasingly.
It is not the way of the Wild to like movement.
It is strong circumstantial evidence, I will admit, but it   The girl laughed.
It is true, he worked with it.
It lay to the right of his path.
It made a queer, grating noise.
It made him frantic.
It made him frantic, this clinging, dragging weight.
It manifested itself to him as a void in his being--a hungry, aching, yearning void that clamoured to be filled.
It meant a fight; and this was the only way that was now vouchsafed him of expressing the life that was in him.
It might have been a lost soul wailing, had it not been invested with a certain sad fierceness and hungry eagerness.
It might have been otherwise, and he would then have been otherwise.
It might have been that he took no notice because he was heavy with sleep.
It moved with commingled mistrust and daring, cautiously observing the men, its attention fixed on the dogs.
It no longer required an effort of the vision to see them.
I took six fish out of the bag.
It pains me to write, I will rest a while.
It paused, head up, close by a clump of spruce trees, and with sight and scent studied the outfit of the watching men.
It possessed many possibilities, was capable of being moulded into many different forms.
It puzzled White Fang.
It ran below its ordinary speed.
It ran up the tree, and from a point of safety chattered back savagely.
It read:   Fingerprints prove you Greystoke.
It remained to him a white wall of light.
It reminded Tarzan of the Dum-Dum, and so he knew what to expect.
It required much thinking and endless patience on the part of Weedon Scott to accomplish this.
It restrained him, opposed the will of him toward personal liberty.
Its apex might be likened to a point.
It savoured of the trap, of bondage.
Its coat was the true wolf-coat.
It seemed to him that he was in Fort McGurry.
It seems as though you had your hands full saving our lives in Africa and here.
Its effect on him was that of an impression of power.
It's got away with three of our  Henry nodded his consent.
It smacked of danger.
Its nose was to the trail, and it trotted with a peculiar, sliding, effortless gait.
It so outraged him and upset him that for hours he would behave like a demon.
It still regarded them with the merciless wistfulness of hunger.
It struggled and tickled his tongue.
Its untouched mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the human beasts beyond its frontier.
It touched the ends of his upstanding hair.
It tried to retreat before him.
It was a big bull they first found.
It was a bit of grimy, white paper roughly folded into a ragged square.
It was a brief fight and fierce.
It was a case, in the parlance of thieves and police, of he had not committed.
It was a deer-hound rushing upon him.
It was a determined and angry company--a punitive expedition as well as one of relief.
It was a feeling, nothing more, and yet none the less potent.
It was a female, and the law of his kind thrust a barrier between.
It was against the law, and he had learned it.
It was agitated by no tremor of anticipation.
It was agreed that on the morrow Canler was to drive to town and bring back the license and a minister.
It was a grinning human skull which looked up at them from the ground.
It was a happy morning for them both when the little vessel weighed anchor and made for the open sea.
It was a jealous note, and he was very careful in keeping a respectful distance.
It was a knowledge bequeathed to him directly from the hunting generation of wolves.
It was alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes.
It was all automatic.
It was all muscle, bone, and sinew-fighting flesh in the finest condition.
It was all that was left of Spanker--the stick with which he had been tied.
It was a long, cruel chase, but he was better nourished than they, and in the end outran them.
It was a long, ripping slash, and deep as well.
It was a lynx kitten, partly grown, like the cub, but not so large.
It was a matter of principle and conscience.
It was a much-relieved party of castaways that found itself once more united.
It was an awkward mix-up.
It was an exclamation of surprise.
It was an expression of the master's disapproval, and White Fang's spirit wilted under it.
It was an expression  One night, not long after the return, Scott and Matt sat at a game of of snarling without.
It was an old elephant track, and D'Arnot after consulting with Professor Porter and Clayton decided to follow it.
It was a pain and an unrest; and it received easement only by the touch of the new god's presence.
It was a placing of his destiny in another's hands, a shifting of the responsibilities of existence.
It was a sad and hungry party that lay through the long night praying for dawn.
It was a savage land, the men were savage, and the fights were usually to the death.
It was a small live thing, and he had no fear.
It was a stately and gallant little compliment performed with the grace and dignity of utter unconsciousness of self.
It was as they had feared.
It was as though he had no brain.
It was at Fort Yukon that White Fang saw his first white men.
It was a torment, this hand that touched him and violated his instinct.
It was a tree-shadow flung by the moon, from whose face the clouds had been brushed away.
It was at this time that a diversion came to the spectators.
It was a vain undertaking.
It was a well-laden Tarzan who dropped from the branches into the midst of the tribe of Kerchak.
It was a wistfulness bred of hunger, as cruel as its own fangs, as merciless as the frost itself.
It was awkward work and hurt his bare feet, but he persevered until he had partially uncovered the body.
It was because of her loss that she paid no attention to the winged bolt of the sky.
It was better to eat small live things like ptarmigan chicks, and to let alone large live things like ptarmigan hens.
It was between him and the master, cutting him off.
It was borne in upon him that he must let his master's dogs alone.
It was but a few minutes later that the boat touched the beach.
It was but two o'clock when the head of the column halted upon the edge of the clearing.
It was by sheer blundering that he chanced upon the shrewdly hidden ptarmigan nest.
It was cold, and he gasped, breathing quickly.
It was colossal, stunning.
It was dark, and he could not see it, but he recognised it by the touch.
It was dim- lighted; but his eyes had never had to adjust themselves to any other light.
It was directly above him.
It was distasteful to his instinct.
It was dry and cosey.
It was during Jim Hall's third term in prison that he encountered a guard that was almost as great a beast as he.
It was early afternoon.
It was enough, however, for his needs.
It was evidently an affair of moment.
It was evident to him from the notes that they did not know that he and Tarzan of the Apes were one and the same.
It was farm-bred and fat and tender; and White Fang licked his chops and decided that such fare was good.
It was filled with so many new and wonderful things that his brain was in a whirl as he attempted to digest them all.
It was gathering for the spring.
It was going hard with him.
It was he!   almost fiercely.
It was he that first learned the trick of rolling a fellow- cub over with a cunning paw-stroke.
It was he who directed the pack's course on the heels of the she-wolf.
It was his first battle.
It was his first glimpse of mankind.
It was his first introduction to the letters of the alphabet, and he was over ten years old.
It was his mate who relieved him from the quandary in which he found himself.
It was his old fighting trick.
It was his own fault.
It was his privilege to resent it with his teeth.
It was in the summer that White Fang arrived at Fort Yukon.
It was in this way that the grey cub learned other attributes of his mother than the soft, soothing, tongue.
It was large for a wolf, its gaunt frame advertising the lines of an animal that was among the largest of its kind.
It was lean with long-standing hunger.
It was like Fate itself, and as inexorable.
It was like the trap, and all his instinct resented it and revolted against it.
It was made of stout birch-bark, and its full surface rested on the snow.
It was Mbonga, the king, father of Kulonga.
It was no longer his dog.
It was no reasoned impulse that made White Fang do what he then did.
It was not a good grip, being too low down toward the chest; but Cherokee held on.
It was not long before they were reduced to a coma of hunger.
It was not so much White Fang's ferocity as it was his silence that unnerved the groom.
It was not the first time in his long and successful life that this thing had happened.
It was not until her racket had faded away in the distance and died out that One Eye ventured forth.
It was not until Weedon Scott put the harness on White Fang and worked him, that he understood.
It was on a sultry day of the dry season that he and one of his cousins had gone down to the bank to drink.
It was only the tame that the gods protected, and between the tame deadly strife was not permitted.
It was on this sight that Jane Porter again opened her eyes.
It was plain to see that a burden had been lifted from their minds.
It was quite invisible in the flaring lights of the camp fires.
It was quite late when they reached the cabin by the beach.
It was ridiculous and ungainly, lying there on his back with legs sprawling in the air.
It was Sheeta, the leopard.
It was SIMPLY FILLED with gold coin, and was so heavy that four men bent underneath its weight.
It was sitting on a log, not a foot beyond the end of his nose.
It was soft, and bled easily.
It was so little when I would like to do so much, Jane.
It was so much added fuel to the flame of his fierceness.
It was soon discovered that Tarzan was missing, and Tublat was strongly opposed to sending assistance.
It was strange meat, different from any she had ever brought before.
It was Tarzan of the Apes who watched, with face a-grin, this odd game of follow-the-leader.
It was the afternoon that the master was to ride, and White Fang knew it.
It was the beginning of the end for White Fang--the ending of the old life and the reign of hate.
It was the camp fire of the Frenchmen.
It was the challenge and the hunt.
It was the colossal bulk of them that impressed him.
It was the compass by which he steered and learned to chart the manners of a new land and life.
It was the diary of John Clayton, Lord Greystoke--kept in French, as had always been his custom.
It was the difference to him between life and death.
It was the endurance of his mind that kept him going.
It was the final word.
It was their instinct.
It was the long wolf-howl, full-throated and mournful, the first howl he had ever uttered.
It was the maker of the track, a large female lynx.
It was the mandate of his instinct that that head must be free.
It was the mark left by Terkoz when he had torn the scalp away.
It was the masterful and incommunicable wisdom of eternity laughing at the futility of life and the effort of life.
It was then that the white men rushed in, visiting their wrath heavily on the pack, while White Fang went free.
It was the old village changed to a new place.
It was the passing of a great ape through the lower branches of the forest.
It was the professor who first broke the silence.
It was the same when he challenged the hawk down out of the sky.
It was these shots that Tarzan and Jane Porter had heard.
It was the signal for fifty others.
It was the straightaway now, and when it came to real running, White Fang could teach her things.
It was the summer of 1898, and thousands of gold-hunters were going up the Yukon to Dawson and the Klondike.
It was the surprise at the blinding flash and the deafening roar that had caused her hasty but temporary retreat.
It was the trap, ever the trap, the fear of it lurking deep in the life of him, woven into the fibre of him.
It was the Wild still clinging to him, asserting itself through him.
It was the Wild, the savage, frozen-hearted Northland Wild.
It was the worst hurt he had ever known.
It was this last that especially affected him.
It was to be expected.
It was to the rear, somewhere in the snow expanse they had just traversed.
It was to this that was fastened the long rope by which he pulled at the sled.
It was to those who had neither been killed or escaped that he hastened.
It was true that they sometimes gave meat, but more often they gave hurt.
It was unprecedented.
It was warm and comfortable, and he was playing cribbage with the Factor.
It was wide and heavy, and protruded outward and down until it seemed to rest on his chest.
It was worth more, in some strange way, then a dozen pieces of meat from the hand of a squaw.
It went faster and faster, and the shorter his money-sack grew, the shorter grew his temper.
It would be cruelly wicked to leave poor Esmeralda here alone, and three of us would be no more successful than one.
It would take a strong animal to test the efficacy of his new scheme.
It would take away his title and his lands and his castles, and--it us.
I want to get the license tomorrow, so that we can be married quietly before you leave for Wisconsin.
I want you to be sure, papa, to indicate all that you can do without until fall.
I was cut off on the south road and had to go away back to town, and then strike east to this road.
I will bring you the best of fruits, the tenderest deer, the finest meats that roam the jungle.
I will fight for you.
I will have my hands full keeping your neck from beneath the  Tarzan lowered his bow and smiled.
I will hunt for you.
I will not return  His companions did not reply at once.
I wish that you could have known him better, Monsieur.
I wish you could know Mr.
I would not have hurt YOU, above all others in the world.
I wouldn't   for?  You said yourself that he'd done right.
Jane and Esmeralda were not there.
Jane commenced to wonder what his plans were.
Jane did as he suggested and when he saw the door close safely behind them Clayton turned toward the jungle.
Jane glanced at him and coughed nervously.
Jane had been watching his antics in mild-eyed surprise.
Jane is beyond human assistance now.
Jane knew that it was useless again to attempt to force her way through the undergrowth.
Jane reeled and would have fallen, had not Tarzan, dropping his burden, caught her in his arms.
Jane stooped to grasp the black woman by the shoulder.
Jane turned in horrified surprise toward Tarzan.
Jane, turning at the cry, saw the cause of it lying prone upon the floor before them--the whitened skeleton of a man.
Jane wondered where he had gone.
Jim Hall had only his naked hands and his teeth.
John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, did not ask to be transferred to the British man-of-war.
Judge Scott nodded his head in agreement.
Judge Scott surveyed them triumphantly.
Justice or injustice, it was all the same, he must take all things from the hands of his own gods.
Just now he ran blindly, his own bank of the Mackenzie alone entering into his calculations.
just the same position upon this card, here, no--a little to the right.
Kala did not wait to see more, but, turning, moved rapidly back along the trail.
Kerchak grunted and turned away, for he was jealous of this strange member of his band.
Kerchak was a huge king ape, weighing perhaps three hundred and fifty pounds.
Kiche licked White Fang soothingly with her tongue, and tried to prevail upon him to remain with her.
Kiche looked on anxiously.
Kiche's greeting of her grown son was anything but affectionate.
Kiche turned and slowly trotted back toward camp.
Kiche was a remote memory.
kind to die in the jungle if it suited your whim to go elsewhere.
know nothing of him.
know that I love you; but I do not know the ethics of society by which you are governed.
Kulonga came down from his tree.
Kulonga was panic-stricken.
Larger, older, and stronger, Lip- lip had selected White Fang for his special object of persecution.
Later, he observed that the boy and girl were of great value in the master's eyes.
Later he would return the letter to the cabin.
Later in the day, he chanced upon another stray chicken near the stables.
Later on that day, Kiche and White Fang strayed into the edge of the woods next to the camp.
Later on two Indians arrived.
Later on, when the overtures became more insistent, White Fang bristled and bared his teeth and backed away.
Later, when he had grown more formidable, he wanted to eat the hawk.
Laughter had affected him with madness, made him frantic with rage.
learn many things, and it's just as well that he begins now.
Leather harness was on the dogs, and leather traces attached them to a sled which dragged along behind.
Let us at least  man to convince, but when once convinced my decision is unalterable.
Lieutenant Charpentier ordered a clearing made and a circular abatis of underbrush constructed about the camp.
Lieutenant D'Arnot was in the lead and moving at a quick pace, for the trail was comparatively open.
Life had become a hell to him.
Life had become too populous.
Life in the Northland was simplicity itself when compared with the complicated affairs of Sierra Vista.
Life is an offence to it, for life is movement; and the Wild aims always to destroy movement.
Life itself was meat.
Life was complex in the Santa Clara Valley after the simplicities of the Northland.
Life was flowing through him again, splendid and indomitable.
Life was soft and easy.
Light came at nine o'clock.
Like a flash he sprang across the opening to the pile of arrows.
Like a thing of bronze, motionless as death, sat Tarzan.
_Like_ had been replaced by _love_.
Like him, they were domesticated wolves.
Like lightning the blows fell, and only ceased when Tarzan felt the limp form crumple beneath him.
Like most creatures of the Wild, he early experienced famine.
like this?  You haven't refused to marry me, but you haven't promised either.
Likewise he was made dizzy by this abrupt and tremendous extension of space.
Lip-lip became a nightmare to him.
Lip-lip essayed to back away, but White Fang struck him hard, shoulder to shoulder.
Lip-lip, excited by the chase and by the persistent nearness of his victim, forgot caution and locality.
Lip-lip was overthrown and rolled upon his back.
Lip-lip would not permit it.
Little opportunity was given White Fang to see all this.
little shudder at recollection of the awful roar which had followed the killing of the lioness.
Live things were meat.
location so's we kin find it again.
Locked in the yard and there deserted by the master, White Fang lay down and went to sleep.
Logic and physics were no part of his mental make- up.
Lonely he had lived, so far as his kind was concerned, and lonely he would continue to live.
Long since had he given up any hope of rescue, except through accident.
Lovingly, JANE PORTER.
Mackenzie hounds, Eskimo and Labrador dogs, huskies and Malemutes--all tried it on him, and all failed.
made a living from it, and been able to send Jane a trifle beside, each year.
Major had made a spring for the meat.
Major staggered to his feet, but the blood spouting from his throat reddened the snow in a widening path.
Man's survival does not hinge so greatly upon the perfection of his senses.
Many comforts he saw that had been left behind.
Many cooking pots were now in evidence about the village.
Many of them he could whip in single fight; but single fight was denied him.
Matt bent over and passed his hand along White Fang's belly.
Matt followed with the lamp, and by its light they saw a man lying on his back in the snow.
Matt had dashed into the cabin and come out with a rifle.
Matt helped the man to his feet.
Matt it was who tried to put him into the harness and make him haul sled with the other dogs.
Matt loosened the bandana from his own neck and started to put it around White Fang's.
Matt made a couple of steps toward White Fang, but the latter slid away from him.
Matt paused halfway down the gang-plank.
Matt, reached for the rifle, and at the same moment White Fang snarled.
Matt regarded his employer with grieved disapproval.
Matt rushed in, but quicker than he was White Fang.
Matt stood staring along the sights at the empty space of snow which had been occupied by White Fang.
Matt took hold of White Fang, ready to pull when Cherokee's jaws should be loosened.
Matt took the rifle and began slowly to raise it to his shoulder.
Matt unsnapped the chain from the collar and stepped back.
Matt uttered a great oath and sprang to his side.
Matt was rolling the master's blankets and fur robe inside a small tarpaulin.
May be there were other ptarmigan hens.
may clear up a mystery.
Mbonga could explain nothing of the strange events that had taken place.
meaning of firearms as well as you do.
Mechanically, at short range, without letting go of it, he thrust a brand full into her open and snarling mouth.
Men despaired of matching him with an equal, and Beauty Smith was compelled to pit wolves against him.
men from Captain Dufranne to assist us, and one of the prisoners to  the captain.
Men stared at him, poked sticks between the bars to make him snarl, and then laughed at him.
Men told this to one another, and looked each time to see it happen; but White Fang always disappointed them.
Men were scurrying down the gang-plank to the shore.
'm, for all you can tell.
Midway in the passage, the current picked up the cub and swept him downstream.
Mit- sah, alone, gathering firewood in the forest, encountered the boy that had been bitten.
Mit-sah and Kloo-kooch went with him.
Mit-sah resembled his father, much of whose grey wisdom he possessed.
MON DIEU! but you have much to learn.
Moose were scarce, the rabbits almost disappeared, hunting and preying animals perished.
More often was the tribe of Tarzan disturbed by these wandering huntsmen.
More wolves were appearing every moment and joining in the chase.
Morning came, but for the first time the light of day failed to scatter the wolves.
Morning found the man haggard and worn, wide-eyed from want of sleep.
Moslemism was, is, and always will be, a blight on that scientific progress which   Professor Archimedes Q.
Most of them, therefore, were more than content with the change in rulers.
MY DEAR MISS PORTER:  I had no reason to insinuate what I did.
My only excuse is that my nerves must be unstrung--which is no excuse at all.
Nature had been more generous to him than to the average animal, that was all.
Nature had been niggardly with him.
Nay, he encouraged White Fang to join in the chase.
Nearer and nearer it approached, mounting louder and louder in volume.
Nearer and nearer it came.
Nearer the center of the tree, where the signs of passage are fainter, the direction is plainly marked.
Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs.
Near the center of the clearing, and not far from the drum, or altar, he commenced to dig.
Near the gang-plank, Scott was shaking hands with Matt, who was preparing to go ashore.
Near the middle of the book he found his old enemy, Sabor, the lioness, and further on, coiled Histah, the snake.
need you work for it.
Neither spoke, yet both knew before they opened the closed door what they would find beyond.
never before in my life have I known one of these animals to be permitted to roam at large from its cage.
Never did he fail to respond savagely to the chatter of the squirrel he had first met on the blasted pine.
Never had he been so fond of this body of his as now when his tenure of it was so precarious.
Never had he heard her snarl so terribly.
Never had he seen such a dog.
Never had he traveled with such reckless speed.
Never, in all his fighting, had this thing happened.
Never in all his life had so fearful a sound smote upon his ears.
Never, in his brief cave-life, had he encountered anything of which to be afraid.
Never, in that period, did any of them crawl toward the dark corners of the back-wall.
never like this before.
Never, she thought had such a man strode the earth since God created the first in his own image.
Nevertheless, he ran with his head even with the shoulder of his one-eyed elder.
Nevertheless, Nature had given him plasticity.
Nevertheless, White Fang was not quite satisfied with the arrangement.
Nevertheless, with the exception of the ones that limped, the movements of the animals were effortless and tireless.
Never would he see one of his own kind again, nor could he bear the thought of returning to the cabin.
Next in his regard, after the children, was Judge Scott.
night, standing erect at completion of his task.
No chain nor stick bound him.
No dog could make him lose his footing.
No hard surface collided with the tender little nose he thrust out tentatively before him.
No harm seemed to come of it, while the noises the gods made were certainly not threatening.
Noiselessly Kerchak entered, crouching for the charge; and then John Clayton rose with a sudden start and faced them.
No longer the tail lashed--quiet and straight behind her it lay.
No longer was there safety for bird or beast.
No matter what their fighting experience, they had never encountered a dog that moved so swiftly as he.
no more with your king or your people, for next time I shall kill you.
None in all the jungle may face Tarzan of the Apes in battle, and live.
None of the living was conscious when the Frenchmen reached the Arrow's deck.
None there was who could now doubt his high origin.
No one was in sight.
Noon found them but a few miles inland.
No other sound did he utter nor was there any creature in sight about him.
Nor did Canler appear to notice the oversight.
Nor did he know the desperateness of her deed.
Nor did he scorn to do battle with a weasel as hungry as himself and many times more ferocious.
Nor did he speak till he had taken his seat on the coffin and begun to eat.
Nor did he stop till he had devoured the whole brood.
Nor did the cub move.
Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her, as had the stalwart forest god.
Nor did the other's frank, clear eyes waver beneath D'Arnot's fixed gaze.
Nor does he need to check his speed to catch these seemingly faint records of the fleeing beast.
No reflection on you, doctor, you understand; but he must have the advantage  all that can be done for him.
Nor, until well out of sight, did he stop to lick his bleeding wounds.
Nor was he following the trail of the old men.
Nor was his uninjured hand behind his back hiding something.
Nor was she above slashing his shoulder sharply on occasion.
Not alone was he in the geographical Southland, for he was in the Southland of life.
Not alone with their own eyes did they see the wolfish creature in the clear light of day, standing before them.
Not a word was spoken.
Not for nothing had he surrendered himself body and soul to Grey Beaver.
No, the white man did not hear.
Nothing had happened.
Nothing happened, though the adjacent portions of the tepee moved.
No, this could not be Tarzan of the Apes, for it was very evident that he was an utter stranger to English.
Not in a day nor a generation were the ravaged sheepfolds to be forgotten.
Not one succeeded in laying a hand on him, and it was well that they did not.
Not only had his partner tied the dogs up, but he had tied them, after the Indian fashion, with sticks.
Not only was his body tired with the adventures it had undergone, but his little brain was equally tired.
Not only was she overthrown.
Not only was such an act sacrilegious in its nature, but it was fraught with peril.
Not only were the starving wolves growing bolder, but lack of sleep was telling upon Henry.
Not quite entirely had the porcupine unrolled when it discovered its enemy.
not quite satisfied with him.
not quite sure whether or not the other had snickered.
Not so, however, with Tarzan, the man-child.
Not so with Tarzan of the Apes.
Not that Cherokee was slow.
Not that he did this consciously, however.
Not that he was to be praised for it.
Not that he went out of his way looking for trouble.
Not the least interesting to Tarzan was the part played by finger prints in this fascinating science.
Not thirty paces behind the two she crouched--Sabor, the huge lioness--lashing her tail.
No two people born into the world probably have ever had identical lines upon all their digits.
Now and again a pair of eyes moved, or disappeared to appear again a moment later.
Now and again he raised his head to note the dying down of the fire.
Now and again he resisted spasmodically and to no purpose.
Now and again he would point to something on the ground before him.
Now a spear sprang forth and touched his arm.
now D'Arnot has made matters worse by teaching me to speak French instead of English.
Now he caught the scent of Numa, for he was traveling up wind.
Now he could expect a beating as fearful as any he had received from Beauty Smith.
Nowhere was there evidence of a man tilling the fields or performing any of the homely duties of the village.
Now her head was through, now one great forearm and shoulder.
Now he was surprised that she repulsed him.
No, White Fang was not for sale at any price.
Now indeed was he dressed as a man should be.
Now, indeed, was the life of Tublat a living nightmare.
Now, in every fiber of his being, heredity spoke louder than training.
No word needed to be spoken.
No word of complaint passed his tight set lips, though the pain of his wounds was excruciating.
Now she laughed--a little choking gurgle of a laugh; but it was enough.
Now she was beneath the overhanging limbs and close above her crouched Tarzan, waiting the outcome of the race.
Now, Tarzan heard the soft bending of grasses and wondered why the young white man was not warned.
Now that the terrible unknown had let go of him, he forgot that the unknown had any terrors.
Now the grey cub had lived all his days on a level floor.
Now the unknown had caught tight hold of him.
Now they came back to him, one by one.
Now was the quiet, fierce solitude of the primeval forest broken by new, strange cries.
nudging White Fang with his foot.
Occasionally a solitary male was driven out by the sharp teeth of his rivals.
Odd vases made by his own hand from the clay of the region held beautiful tropical flowers.
Of all this White Fang knew nothing.
of both whites and blacks because of several occurrences which to Tarzan seemed the merest of nothings.
of course she couldn't tell me much about it.
Of course you are right.
off across the snow, I looked in the snow an' saw its tracks.
off first on one ground and then another.
Of his own choice, he came in to sit by man's fire and to be ruled by him.
Of medicine or surgery the poor thing knew nothing.
of my father and Mr.
Of such things he had not the faintest glimmering.
often thought about you, you know, and the remarkable circumstances of your environment.
of the Apes and Kala, his mother.
Of this litter but one remained alive when White Fang came upon the scene, and this one was not destined to live long.
Oh,  But the strangest part of it all is the wonderful creature who rescued us.
Oh, how I detest that man!  We all tried to look on the bright side of things, but Mr.
Oh, it was most engrossing!  Never before in all his ten years had he enjoyed anything so much.
Oh, it was the most terrifying experience one could imagine--I cannot even write of it.
Old One Eye was rapidly overhauling the fleeing shape of white.
Old Tantor, the elephant, alone of all the wild savage life, feared him not--and he alone did Kerchak fear.
On and on they came.
Once, a full-grown female lynx was secured, and this time White Fang fought for his life.
Once, and twice, he sleepily brushed his nose with his paw.
Once at the tree, he studied the surrounding forest in order to fell the tree in the direction of the most firewood.
Once he awakened, and in an opening in the circle, directly in front of him, he saw the she-wolf gazing at him.
Once he gained his feet, but his legs were too weak to sustain him, and he slowly wilted and sank back into the snow.
Once he got up and walked over to the trough for a drink of water.
Once he pressed his lips lightly upon her forehead, and she did not move, but closed her eyes and sighed.
Once, he roused with a start and hastily got the axe out from underneath the lashings.
Once, lying awake, he heard a strange sound in the white wall.
Once more they sat down together to eat.
Once, the cub sprang in and sank his teeth into the hind leg of the lynx.
Once their uproar became so loud that Bill woke up.
One and all, from time to time, they felt his teeth; and to his credit, he gave more than he received.
One by one the tribe swung down from their arboreal retreats and formed a circle about Tarzan and his vanquished foe.
One by one they sickened and died, until only one man was left, the writer of the letter.
One cannot violate the promptings of one's nature without having that nature recoil upon itself.
One careless sniff had satisfied his mate, and she trotted on to reassure him.
One chance in a thousand is really optimistic.
One day a number of men gathered about the pen.
One day she led him off on a long chase through the back-pasture land into the woods.
One day they openly sicked the dogs on him.
One day, three dogs were turned in upon him in succession.
One day While Fang encountered a young wolf, gaunt and scrawny, loose- jointed with famine.
One does not give up a god easily, and so with White Fang.
One Ear didn't get no fish.
One Ear drew near to her, still alert and cautious, his tail and ears in the air, his head held high.
One Ear strained the full length of the stick toward the intruder and whined with eagerness.
One entry showed an almost hopeful spirit.
One Eye approached carefully but hopelessly.
One Eye caught sight of a dim movement of white in the midst of the white.
One Eye half arose in his excitement, his ears up, his tail straight out and quivering behind him.
One Eye moved slightly and peered forth with increased eagerness.
One Eye ran ahead cautiously, his mate at his heels.
One Eye scooped out mouthfuls of the blood-soaked snow, and chewed and tasted and swallowed.
One Eye was desperate.
One foot also he held up, after the manner of a dog.
One hand extended outward and began to descend upon his head.
On either side of his body stood his two rivals.
On either side stretched lawns, their broad sweep broken here and there by great sturdy-limbed oaks.
One leap more and his teeth would be sinking into it.
One man went mad and leaped overboard.
One moonlight night, running through the quiet forest, One Eye suddenly halted.
One night, as they were sitting within the cabin before retiring, Tarzan turned to D'Arnot.
One of the grooms ran to the rescue.
One of the Indians arose and walked over to him and stooped above him.
One of the others commenced to ply his pick to the ground.
One of the potencies of whisky is the breeding of thirst.
One of the puppies sprawled up to White Fang.
One of these was fidelity.
One or the other must give over, and that one was White Fang.
One other adventure was destined for him that day.
One other experience of similar nature was his.
One piercing scream escaped her lips as the brute hand clutched her arm.
One portion was what his own kind killed and ate.
One result of this was to make White Fang more ferocious and indomitable, and more solitary.
One sled he drove himself, drawn by dogs he had traded for or borrowed.
One stride beyond she took--a second, a third, and then the silent coil shot out above her.
One string he tied around the throat of Kiche.
One such potency was _love_.
On every side was the silence, pressing upon them with a tangible presence.
One was an elderly man, with white hair and large rimmed spectacles.
One was in a strong masculine hand and was unsealed.
One was the Arrow and the other a small French cruiser.
One white man, having seen his dog, a setter, torn to pieces before his eyes, drew a revolver.
On he hurried, his spear poised for the throw.
On her other side ran a gaunt old wolf, grizzled and marked with the scars of many battles.
Only a few seconds elapsed before he was on his feet again.
only grieve that I could not have died for him, or at least with him.
Only he did not know it for an entrance.
Only Kerchak hung back, nursing his hatred and his rage.
Only one sister remained to him.
Only remained to him to run away.
Only Tarzan did not comprehend.
Only the strong survived.
On one such night, while all the house slept, White Fang awoke and lay very quietly.
On, on they came until Kerchak himself slunk stealthily to the very door and peered within.
On the contrary, it was even pleasant, in a physical way.
On the contrary, they devoured their own meat hurriedly, for fear that he would take it away from them.
On the couch lay Clayton.
On the fifth day following the murder of the ship's officers, land was sighted by the lookout.
On the following morning it was seen that one of the corpses had been partially devoured.
On the instant, the she- wolf's coyness and playfulness disappeared.
On the other hand, instead of walking away at sight of them, he waited for them to come to him.
On the other hand, there was something about him that prevented great familiarity.
On the other hand, try as they would, they could not kill White Fang.
On the placid waters of the landlocked harbor floated a great ship, and on the beach a small boat was drawn up.
On the sled, securely lashed, was a long and narrow oblong box.
On they came to the portals of Kulonga's hut, the very one in which Tarzan had wrought his depredations.
On this day, however, he presently had other and more immediate interests to attract his attention.
Opening it they found a crude message printed almost illegibly, and with many evidences of an unaccustomed task.
Opportunity favoured when White Fang remained quiet.
opportunity to harm us himself, or to lead his people against us.
Or again, he would be in the pen of Beauty Smith.
or lesser extent upon the absolute correctness of this comparison.
Others, again, searched the surrounding trees for fruit, nuts, small birds, and eggs.
Otherwise he ignored them.
our officers and robbed us.
Out in the back-pasture, a quail could flutter up under his nose unharmed.
Out in the fields he could see still other women hoeing, weeding, or gathering.
Out of his puniness and fright he challenged and menaced the whole wide world.
Out shot the arm, and the spear sped toward Kala.
Outside the household there was even more for White Fang to learn.
Outside the pen, men would be gathering, and he knew that a fight was on.
Outside was the common domain of all gods--the roads and streets.
over 'on Little Stick.
pardon me if I do not speak to you in English.
PART III   CHAPTER I--THE MAKERS OF FIRE   The cub came upon it suddenly.
PART V   CHAPTER I--THE LONG TRAIL   It was in the air.
Perhaps even now she was attempting to defend herself against some savage man or beast.
Perhaps he read there the love that lay in the heart beneath--the love for his daughter.
Perhaps it was from excess.
Perhaps some new devilry of the gods was about to be perpetrated on him.
Perhaps the jaw was too large.
Philander and Esmeralda.
Philander and I found.
Philander and the weeping Esmeralda.
Philander at his elbow, urging him to turn his steps back before the two became again the sport of some savage beast.
Philander cast a frightened glance behind him.
Philander eyed Tarzan narrowly.
Philander grasped Professor Archimedes Q.
Philander had been there.
Philander had come up.
Philander had joined the two men.
Philander had not moved from where he had fallen; he had not dared the attempt.
Philander, he said:   Mr.
Philander, his secretary and assistant.
Philander in with him.
Philander, I should count at least a thousand, and then maintain a   Jane blanched.
Philander is only a trifle less impractical than he.
Philander lay as he had fallen, frozen into the horrid semblance of death.
Philander lifted his other eye out of the mud and gazed in speechless rage at Professor Porter.
Philander lost in the jungle, and chased by a real lion.
Philander, preceding it, was precipitated upon his back.
Philander rolled over upon his side and peered about.
Philander says that we can exist indefinitely on the wild fruit and nuts which abound in the jungle.
Philander set off in the direction that would put the greatest distance between themselves and the lion.
Philander's faulty memory.
Philander stole another observation astern.
Philander that the lion was following them.
Philander took another hasty glance rearward.
Philander to regain the balance which the sudden fright had so perilously endangered.
Philander was placing the frail bones of the infant in a bit of sail cloth, he examined the skull minutely.
Philander was speaking.
Philander was the first to see her.
Philander was too much relieved at the happy outcome to their adventure to take umbrage at the professor's cruel fling.
Philander was very near sighted.
Philander were deeply interested in examining the skeletons.
Philander were immersed in an absorbing discussion of some weighty scientific problem.
Piece by piece, he ate all the meat, and nothing happened.
Please try and think that I did not say it.
Porter adjusted his spectacles.
Porter and his assistant, Samuel T.
Porter fidgeted in his armchair.
Porter fled through the moonlight close upon the heels of Mr.
Porter!  I am a desperate man.
Porter turned in the direction indicated by the nearsighted Mr.
Possibly Ara was a friend with whom the Archer was sharing his food.
Possibly he accepted it as one of the restrictions of life.
Possibly in her whole life it was the most terrible snarl she ever gave.
Possibly it contained word that his people had but left the beach temporarily.
Possibly this appearance was due to the weariness of the slender neck, unable properly to support so great a burden.
Possibly, too, he thought, the professor and Philander might have returned to camp.
Pray allow yourself to be guided by a more mature and practical mind hereafter when in need of  Mr.
Presently a faint rustling of the bush apprised him of the stealthy creeping of the thing behind.
Presently a spear reached out and pricked the victim.
Presently he caught the reflection of a distant blaze.
Presently he halted before the rifle.
Presently it tried the strength of the lattice with its great talons.
Presently one of the blacks looked up, and beholding Tarzan, turned, shrieking, toward the palisade.
Presently one of the crew spied the approaching Claytons, and with a uplifted ax.
Presently Robert Canler burst into the room.
Presently the ape-man lost patience with their stupid ignorance.
Presently the workers in the fields returned.
Presently they came to the clearing before the beach.
Presently they reached the center of the village.
Professor Archimedes Q.
Professor Porter and Mr.
Professor Porter deigned to make no response to this puerile inquiry.
Professor Porter finally broke the silence.
Professor Porter had already disappeared into the jungle, whither he was being followed by the fussy Samuel T.
Professor Porter was there, and Mr.
Professor Porter was wandering along the beach south of the camp with Mr.
professor turned slowly in the direction of the jungle.
profit; he made a thousand per cent.
prompted to 'keep a still tongue in my 'ead.
Public-spirited citizens took down their rifles and went out after him.
Punishment failed to break his spirit.
Quickly and noiselessly he dropped to the ground beside the cauldron of poison.
Quickly he lowered Kulonga's body to the ground, removed the noose, and took to the trees again.
Quickly he ran to the cupboard and searched in the far recess of the lower shelf.
Quickly she snatched it from its hiding-place, and, leveling it full at the lioness's face, pulled the trigger.
quick they may even change their minds about giving ye that much show.
Quick was Sabor, the lioness, and quick were Numa and Sheeta, but Tarzan of the Apes was lightning.
Quietly Tarzan dropped to the ground.
Quite as often he understepped and stubbed his feet.
Quite as though it had been a long-established custom of his he struck out with all his legs and began to swim.
Quite deliberately he determined to stay behind.
Raising their rifles they fired into the underbrush in the direction from which the missiles had come.
Rather did they tolerate him in a broad human way, as one tolerates any creature evilly treated in the making.
Remained only the trampled snow to show how closely they had pressed him.
Returning to the cave, she entered its narrow mouth.
Rivers and streams that entered the main river he forded or swam.
Roughly she shook her.
run away from one of your own people, because one of them has run away   D'Arnot closed the cabin door.
Running at the forefront of the pack was a large grey wolf--one of its several leaders.
Sabor passed beneath.
Sabor, the lioness, was a wise hunter.
Salmon Tongue's hand reached out to him and rolled him over on his back.
Savage beasts roared and growled; noises, hideous and weird, assailed their ears.
Savageness was a part of his make-up, but the savageness thus developed exceeded his make- up.
saved your life, Miss Porter.
Say that you forgive me.
scarcely breathed as he voiced the horrible thought.
Scarcely had half a dozen entered the building ere they came rushing out in wild, jabbering confusion.
Scarcely had they closed their eyes than the terrifying cry of a panther rang out from the jungle behind them.
Scott could only look in wonder.
Scott cried out sharply with surprise, catching his torn hand and holding it tightly in his other hand.
Scott grasped the dog-musher's hand.
Scott never desisted from his efforts, though he looked up coolly and asked:   The faro-dealer grunted.
Scott opened his arms to her, but kept his eyes on White Fang.
Scott's eyes were shining.
Scott shook his head and went on trying to win White Fang's confidence.
Scott sprang toward him, drawing his fist back to strike.
Scott turned his back on him, and returned to help the dog-musher, who was working over White Fang.
Scott turned to see.
Several human skulls lay upon the floor.
Several miles south of the cabin, upon a strip of sandy beach, stood two old men, arguing.
Several moons passed by ere the blacks ventured far into the territory surrounding their new village.
Several small animals passed unharmed beneath him.
Several times they encountered solitary wolves.
Shaking him roughly by the shoulder, he cried:   Clayton sprang to his feet.
She almost prayed for the cruel teeth that would give her unconsciousness and surcease from the agony of fear.
she ate the dog-food.
She bounded in amongst them, her anxious and militant motherhood making her anything but a pretty sight.
She came closer and closer.
She compelled obedience from him, and the older he grew the shorter grew her temper.
She could get meat, and she never failed to bring him his share.
She could hear the great padded paws upon the ground outside.
She could not analyze her feelings, nor did she wish to attempt it.
She could not have known it, but she was being borne farther and farther into the impenetrable jungle.
She could not understand it.
She crept out cautiously on the edge of a large open space in the midst of the trees.
She defied all efforts of the master to make her become friends with White Fang.
She did not lose consciousness, but she clung tightly to him, shuddering and trembling like a frightened deer.
She did not reply at once, but he waited patiently.
She did not run; but, after the manner of her kind when not aroused, sought rather to avoid than to escape.
She did not rush him, now that her young one was safe.
She did not see Clayton again that day.
She did not snap, nor threaten to snap.
She draws out the dog an' then all  The fire crackled.
She drew it out, holding it in the palm of her hand for a moment with tear-blurred eyes bent upon it.
She dropped in alongside by him, as though it were her appointed position, and took the pace of the pack.
Sheeta, the leopard, alone of all the jungle folk, tortured his prey.
She followed, running swiftly.
She found him guilty before the act, and treated him accordingly.
She gave him a brave and pretty smile of thanks, but no words passed between them.
She glanced at Clayton out of the corner of her eye.
She had been through so much.
She had heard the cry of her cub and was dashing to save him.
She had known better than the blundering gods.
She had not loved him, then.
She had seen one child fall from her back to a terrible death, and she would take no further chances with this.
She had tried it once, and failed.
She heard a sudden, slight sound behind her.
She hung on, striving to press down with her teeth to the great vein where his life-blood bubbled.
She is not dead then?  Where was she?  What happened to her?   She is not dead.
She is planning on our going up there the first of the week.
She knew that the fact that he had been there was all that had permitted her to sleep in such peaceful security.
She lifted her lip at him in the old snarl of menace, and his memory became clear.
She looked at him merely with a great wistfulness, but he knew it to be the wistfulness of an equally great hunger.
She looked up at Tarzan to find him leaning toward her gazing on the miniatures with an expression of astonishment.
She looked up to see his lithe form drop softly from a near-by tree.
She made another leap, and another.
She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan.
She moved toward him a few steps, playfully, and then halted.
She never gave him a moment's peace.
She noticed that he was watching her and thinking that he wished his ornament again she held it out to him.
She nozzled him and caressed him and licked the cuts made in him by the weasel's teeth.
She opened her eyes.
She passed out to await Tarzan and so did not hear the conversation which followed.
She paused at the mouth of the cave and looked the wall over carefully.
She pecked him again and again.
She pecked on his nose, which by now, what of previous adventures was sore.
She pointed to it now, and Tarzan removed it and handed the pretty bauble to her.
She poised for a moment, then sprang for the dancing rabbit.
She quit her antics, and quieted down for a long minute.
She rarely slept any more in the cave, spending most of her time on the meat-trail, and spending it vainly.
She realized that it was because she had forgotten the fear that prompted her to accept it.
She realized the stern retribution which justice metes to the murderer.
She remained always between him and the way he wanted to go.
She rolled him off his legs so that he could not run, while she repeatedly ripped and slashed him with her fangs.
She rushed upon White Fang in frenzied wrath.
She saw her prey--the two women--lying senseless upon the floor.
She saw him as she introduced him to her friends--uncouth, illiterate--a boor; and the girl winced.
She saw the jungle about her.
She screamed with fright as he seized her dress in his teeth and dragged on it till the frail fabric tore away.
She seemed to be searching for something that she could not find.
She seemed to smile at him, showing her teeth in an ingratiating rather than a menacing way.
She should be very proud of such a husband.
She showed the letter, or rather the last sheet with the signature, to Clayton.
She sniffed noses with him, and even condescended to leap about and frisk and play with him in quite puppyish fashion.
She spoke scarcely above a whisper.
She sprang savagely at the thing that had hurt her.
She's the decoy for the pack.
She's too smart to be shot in the open.
She took after him, never ceasing her outcry.
She, too, rendered submission to the man- animals.
She, too, soared high, but not so high as the quarry, and her teeth clipped emptily together with a metallic snap.
She tried to imagine her wood-god by her side in the saloon of an ocean liner.
She turned and touched his neck with her muzzle in a reassuring way, then regarded the camp again.
She turned aside and trotted over to it.
She turned upon him like a tigress, striking his great breast with her tiny hands.
She wanted to be alone, she said, and he respected her wishes.
She was crouching as he had crouched once that day, in front of her the tight-rolled ball of quills.
She was even pleased.
She was getting very heavy, and could run but slowly.
She was looking at the man, and for some time he returned her look.
She was not more than half a dozen feet away sitting in the snow and wistfully regarding him.
She was not so amenable to the law as he.
She was snarling as she ran.
She was sorry that she had ever seen the forest god.
She was strangely stirred, and sniffed and sniffed with an increasing delight.
She was the last to leave the cabin, returning on some trivial pretext after the others had started for the boat.
She was tied, but he could not get away from her easily.
She was within the cabin and had slammed and bolted the startled out of Mr.
She was without value to him.
She went to the bed upon which had been spread several layers of soft grasses.
She wished she had never met Clayton.
She wondered and then she smiled.
She would not admit that he could be dead.
She would not let Clayton accompany her.
Shoulder to shoulder, he struck her squarely.
Shouting in alarm, the four took to their heels, and then the black spied Tarzan.
Shouts of of his tail.
shrieked Snipes, with a volley of frightful oaths.
Shrinking, almost shivering, he still managed to hold himself together.
Side by side they were walking toward the cottage.
Sierra Vista awoke in alarm.
Sierra Vista was a far vaster affair than the tepee of Grey Beaver.
Sights and sounds and scents were familiar to him.
Silence settled down again over the lonely land.
Silence would do no good.
Since then Tarzan of the Apes had felt a warm, lithe form close pressed to his.
Since White Fang continued to fight, it is obvious that it was the other dogs that died.
sinking within her as she realized the probable size of the expenditure that had been made.
Sitting on the deck several feet away and watching wistfully was White Fang.
Six days later Captain Dufranne announced that they would sail early on the morrow.
skin--could you have seen them force back those awful fangs--you too would have thought him invincible.
Skins of lion and panther covered the floor.
Slipping in at the door he found that everything had been ransacked.
Slowly, cautiously, and noiselessly they crept through the jungle toward the little cabin.
Slowly, cautiously, it was unrolling its ball of impregnable armour.
Slowly Esmeralda opened her eyes.
Slowly he turned the pages, scanning the pictures and the text for a repetition of the combination B-O-Y.
Slowly it shifted up along the jugular.
Slowly she forced her great bulk, inch by inch, through the opening.
Slowly she turned and walked back to the cabin.
Slowly, slowly, the bristling ball straightened out and lengthened.
Slowly the bullet head of the ape was being forced lower and lower upon his chest.
Slowly the circumstances of her position crept one by one into her mind.
Slowly the expedition retraced its steps of the preceding day.
Slowly the lioness was emerging from the window.
So acute did his hunger become at times that he was not above rooting out wood-mice from their burrows in the ground.
So, also, she had a great capacity for mother love and mother sorrow.
So close was she now that the ape-man felt the animal warmth of her naked body.
So Collie took advantage of her sex to pick upon White Fang and maltreat him.
So D'Arnot wrote a message on the bark, in English.
So did Mit-sah and Kloo-kooch.
So, early one morning, he set forth alone upon his quest.
So far as he was concerned they did not exist.
So far as the ape was concerned, Sabor reasoned correctly.
So fresh was it that he knew it immediately for what it was.
So he ate the ptarmigan.
So he followed morosely at Beauty Smith's heels, his tail between his legs, yet snarling softly under his breath.
So he lay down, in a comfortable crouching position, his nose fully a foot away, and out of the line of the tail.
So he learnt to give no warning of his intention.
So he remained in his bondage waiting for her.
So he remained on exhibition until spring, when one Tim Keenan, a faro-dealer, arrived in the land.
So he rendered fealty in the new way, by running with the master's horse.
So he sat on his haunches, conspicuously in an open space, and challenged the hawk down out of the sky.
So he stepped boldly out upon the air.
So he turned his back upon the village of Mbonga and melted away into the leafy fastness of the forest.
So he turned tail philosophically and trotted on up the stream.
So he was driven to hunt still smaller things.
So he went out of his way to be especially kind to the Fighting Wolf.
So he worked hard, learned discipline, and was obedient.
So his quarry had already passed on his return along the trail.
So, in the night, when the men in the fort were asleep, White Fang applied his teeth to the stick that held him.
So little Tarzan wriggled out from beneath the struggling mass, clutching his grisly prize close to his breast.
Somehow she could not bear the thought of his going back into the terrible jungle alone.
Some new danger, he thought, but he dared not take his eyes from the yellow green orbs before him.
Some of the men were already departing; others stood in groups, looking on and talking.
Something, an incommunicable vastness of feeling, rose up into his eyes as a light and shone forth.
Something had happened.
something in that jungle, and it's armed, whatever it is.
Something might happen.
Something might happen yet, he tried to console himself by thinking.
Something unusual was happening.
Something was always happening.
Something was at the door trying to enter.
Something was happening.
Something was impending.
Sometimes, and rarely, he managed to get his feet to the earth and for a moment to brace himself against White Fang.
Sometimes finding food in plenty and again going hungry for days.
Sometimes he overstepped and stubbed his nose.
Sometimes he was under, sometimes on top.
Sometimes, however, a nip on his hind-quarters hastened his retreat and made it anything but stately.
Sometimes, however, he dropped cautiously and slowly behind and edged in between the old leader and the she-wolf.
Sometimes she whirled with him.
Sometimes this gurgle became sibilant, almost a whistle.
Some twenty souls in all there were, fifteen of them rough and villainous appearing seamen.
Some were short-legged--too short; others were long-legged--too long.
So much had Tarzan seen that day that his head was in a whirl of wonder.
Soon another opened his veins and drank his own blood.
Sooner or later he would accomplish his purpose, get the grip that would win the battle.
Soon he discovered a spade hidden by the underbrush which they had laid upon the grave.
Soon he saw many people clambering over the sides of the larger vessel and dropping into the boats.
Soon the cool water revived him, and presently he opened his eyes to look in questioning surprise at D'Arnot.
Soon the entire party had landed where stood Professor Porter, Mr.
Soon the flames had spanned the road to the south and cut off Canler's return.
Soon the warriors beat the women away from their prisoner.
So peaceful was her end that it was hours before Clayton could awake to a realization that his wife was dead.
So quickly did Tarzan of the Apes drag back his prey that Kulonga's cry of alarm was throttled in his windpipe.
So quickly the virus worked that at the end of a dozen leaps the deer plunged headlong into the undergrowth, dead.
So run away he did, violating his own nature and pride with every leap he made, and leaping all day long.
So she did not remember White Fang.
So Tarzan of the Apes did the only thing he knew to assure Jane of her safety.
So Tarzan swung quickly to a lower limb in line with the approaching fugitives; and as Mr.
So the cub had no quarrel with his hostile environment.
So the dogs came to understand that when the team stopped by order, White Fang was to be let alone.
So the grey cub knew fear, though he knew not the stuff of which fear was made.
So the scream of Sabor, the lioness, galvanized the brain and muscles of little Tarzan into instant action.
So they did not know that he was Tarzan of the Apes.
So they set out, D'Arnot marveling as had Clayton and Jane at the wondrous strength and agility of the apeman.
So to him the entrance of the cave was a wall--a wall of light.
So were his brothers and sisters.
So what wonder that the little boy was quite at a loss to guess the meaning of these strange figures.
So White Fang hung around the landing with the disreputable gang of Indian dogs, waiting for steamers.
So White Fang knew nothing of the heaven a man's hand might contain for him.
Splay hoofs and palmated antlers they knew, and they flung their customary patience and caution to the wind.
Squarely among them it fell, striking one of the warriors full upon the head and felling him to the ground.
started, and we can't quit at the beginning.
state that you was a wise guy all right when you paid the price you did for that dog.
Step by step she was luring him away from the security of his human companionship.
steps and lain down to one side of the porch, still growling and keeping a sullen watch on the intruder.
Still continued the journey of Grey Beaver.
Still he was not demonstrative.
Still hidden amongst the trees, he paused to study the situation.
Still nothing happened.
Still protecting his throat and face with his torn and bleeding arm, he tried to retreat to the barn.
Still Tarzan watched.
Still the punishment delayed.
Still the punishment delayed.
Stooping, he crawled into the shelter beside the wounded officer, and placed a cool hand upon his forehead.
Strange because he had had it in his power to kill his enemy, but had allowed him to live--unharmed.
Stronger than the physical restraint of the stick was the clutch of the camp upon her.
Struggling and shrieking, his body, rolling from side to side, moved quickly toward the shadows beneath the trees.
Successful as he was with squirrels, there was one difficulty that prevented him from living and growing fat on them.
Such a thing was unheard of, and it clouded their superstitious minds with all manner of vague fears.
Such was his confidence, that when a moose-bird impudently hopped up to him, he reached out at it with a playful paw.
Such was the lesson that was quickly borne in upon him.
Suddenly Clayton heard the faint report of a firearm--a single shot, and then silence.
Suddenly he found himself at the mouth of the cave.
Suddenly he saw a strange thing like mist beginning to arise from the sticks and moss beneath Grey Beaver's hands.
Suddenly he snapped, striking with his fangs like a snake.
Suddenly Kerchak's finger closed upon the trigger.
Suddenly, out of the northeast, a great black car came careening down the road.
Suddenly something snapped in the wicked little brain of the anthropoid.
Suddenly there came a hail from the edge of the clearing.
Suddenly these cries ceased, and the silence of death reigned throughout the jungle.
suffer, Professor Porter, for you will be able to pay the Canler person     to whom it belonged.
Surely no such creatures really existed upon earth--he must indeed be dreaming.
Surely the men were stupid and ridiculous and cowardly.
Surely there was no sense in that; no one wanted to steal dry bones.
surprise and exuberant delight at seeing you safe and well again that I scarcely know what I am saying, really.
Taking her hands in his, when she insisted upon it, he held them tightly to prevent her.
Tarzan, after reading the message, sat on the edge of the couch and laughed.
Tarzan and Jane raised their heads.
Tarzan asked questions and learned rapidly.
Tarzan began to hold his own kind in low esteem.
Tarzan coiled his rope.
Tarzan complied readily, asking many questions of the officer during the operation.
Tarzan could not understand it.
Tarzan derived the greatest pleasure of his life in hunting meat for these strangers.
Tarzan did not attempt to escape.
Tarzan did not repeat his warning signal, but instead rushed bodily upon the waiting Terkoz.
Tarzan did not want to see him more.
Tarzan drew back silently to the far wall, and his hand sought the long, keen hunting knife of his father.
Tarzan dropped to the ground and commenced to examine the earth about the excavation.
Tarzan examined the black minutely, for he had never seen any other human being.
Tarzan examined these all minutely.
Tarzan eyed Robert Canler as Sabor eyes her prey.
Tarzan fished the little black diary from the bottom of his quiver, and handed it to his companion.
Tarzan fitted his bow with a poisoned arrow, but D'Arnot placed a hand upon his arm.
Tarzan folded the sheets into a small parcel which he tucked into the quiver with his arrows.
Tarzan had always hated water except as a medium for quenching his thirst.
Tarzan had fastened the end of the rope securely to the trunk of the great tree on which he sat.
Tarzan had finally determined to visit the camp by daylight.
Tarzan had learned from his books but scattered fragments of the ways of human beings.
Tarzan had long since reached a decision as to what his future procedure should be.
Tarzan had not broken fast this day, and it was many miles to where lay the toothsome remains of Horta the boar.
Tarzan had to lift him that he might drink from the gourd.
Tarzan, happily, was uninjured by the fall, alighting catlike upon all fours far outspread to take up the shock.
Tarzan held a peculiar position in the tribe.
Tarzan knew their customs.
Tarzan knew what the result would be.
Tarzan lifted the latch and pushed the great door in upon its wooden hinges.
Tarzan looked at the book in surprise.
Tarzan looked down into the beautiful face before him.
Tarzan met the rush with the fighting smile that the joy of battle always brought to his lips.
Tarzan, more than the apes, craved and needed flesh.
Tarzan nodded his head.
Tarzan now swam to shore and clambered quickly upon dry land.
Tarzan of the Apes did not hurry.
Tarzan of the Apes enjoyed a joke.
Tarzan of the Apes felt of each article, hefted the spears, smelled of nostrils.
Tarzan of the Apes looked with growing wonder at these strange creatures.
Tarzan of the Apes needed no interpreter to translate the story of those distant shots.
Tarzan of the Apes was fascinated.
Tarzan of the Apes was gone.
Tarzan of the Apes was no sentimentalist.
Tarzan of the Apes watched them for a while from his lofty perch in the great tree.
Tarzan of the Apes went down beneath the great body of his enemy, but with gleaming knife drawn and striking home.
Tarzan pointed toward the sounds, touched his breast and pointed again.
Tarzan read the first one through with a look of sorrow on his face.
Tarzan realized now what was the meaning of their visit to the police officer.
Tarzan released him, and Canler staggered toward the door.
Tarzan removed his hand from Canler's throat.
Tarzan rose, and, going to one of the cupboards, returned with a well-thumbed geography.
Tarzan sat in a brown study for a long time after he finished reading the letter.
Tarzan sat with gaze fixed upon the floor for nearly an hour.
Tarzan saw that in many ways they were like the men of his picture books.
Tarzan's grief and anger were unbounded.
Tarzan shook his head, and an expression of wistful and pathetic longing sobered his laughing eyes.
Tarzan shook his head and taking the bark, wrote:   I had thought of that--the first day; but I dared not.
Tarzan swung himself to the trees once more, and with swift noiselessness sped along high above the trail.
Tarzan there was no word for man, and Tarzan could only write the word in English; he could not pronounce it.
Tarzan thought for a long time.
Tarzan thought much on this wondrous method of slaying as he swung slowly along at a safe distance behind his quarry.
Tarzan took the envelope and tore it open.
Tarzan took to the trees in pursuit, and in a few moments came in view of the men desperately striving to escape.
Tarzan turned toward Jane.
Tarzan understood the plan instantly.
Tarzan waited in silence before the door of the little house until they should return.
Tarzan waited no longer, but leaping into the branches of the trees sped rapidly through the forest.
Tarzan was an interested spectator.
Tarzan was appalled.
Tarzan was as anxious to go as D'Arnot, for he longed to see Jane again.
Tarzan was directly over Kulonga, as he made the discovery.
Tarzan was looking at her with an expression of puzzled bewilderment in his eyes as she glanced up at him.
Tarzan was much hurt.
Tarzan was not particularly interested in the men, however, so he sought the other window.
Tarzan was nowhere in sight.
Tarzan was one of the wild, leaping horde.
Tarzan was perplexed.
Tarzan was spellbound.
Tarzan was still gazing with fixity at the two faces.
Tarzan was still issuing orders which Clayton could not understand.
Tarzan watched the graceful movements of the ship in rapt admiration, and longed to be aboard her.
Tarzan wondered what the purpose of this action might be.
Tarzan would have liked to subdue the ugly beast without recourse to knife or arrows.
Ten loaded hammocks retarded its pace.
Terror itself, and the mystery of the unknown, led to his living.
thank you for your chivalrous loyalty to my dear father.
That a man named Canler had come up      She buried her face in her hands.
that any of us need worry about our carrion-eating acquaintance.
That business was a thing of the past.
That evening in the little waiting room at the station Tarzan caught Jane alone for a moment.
That he had been able to turn his hands at all to such unaccustomed labor was a source of mild wonder to him.
That he joyed in killing, and that he killed with a joyous laugh upon his handsome lips betokened no innate cruelty.
That he was not far from home he was certain, so he took the trail at a rapid trot.
that he will prove that you are wrong.
that I also would rather die than remain here.
that if I do not return before daylight I shall have something to wear     and rope.
That night he lifted the long wolf-howl.
That night he lost consciousness.
That night he waited for the master to return.
That night Kulonga slept in the crotch of a mighty tree and far above him crouched Tarzan of the Apes.
That night, when all was still, White Fang remembered his mother and sorrowed for her.
That nothing moved nor sounded, seemed ominous.
That now seemed to them the logical explanation.
that our best chance lies in maintaining a neutral position.
That's what's ailin' you.
That, they had crossed and left long since, though it had been fresh and plain before Tarzan's eyes.
that time we'll have been able to make an inhabited coast somewhere and scatter a bit.
That was evidently the crime of crimes, the one offence there was no condoning nor overlooking.
That was no concern of his.
That was the American girl who had been carried into the jungle by a gorilla.
That was to be expected.
That we are here today evidences their victory.
That which was given unto him did he return.
That White Fang should quickly gain this post was inevitable.
That you never came to make friends with us has been a great regret to us.
The aim of life was meat.
The animal was certainly not cinnamon-coloured.
The answer to his life's riddle lay in these tiny marks.
The ape-man, hiding safe behind a screen of foliage, sat watching this new specimen of his own race intently.
The ape-man knew no god, but he was as near to worshipping his divinity as mortal man ever comes to worship.
The ape-man threw the warm carcass of Numa across his shoulders and took to the trees once more.
The Apes did not do such things as that.
The apes scattered by ones, and twos, and threes in all directions, but ever within sound of a signal of alarm.
The ape was a great bull, weighing probably three hundred pounds.
The _Aurora's_ whistle hooted a final announcement of departure.
The awe of man rushed over him again.
The backers of Cherokee waxed jubilant and offered ridiculous odds.
The bad stands for all things that are fraught with discomfort, menace, and hurt, and is hated accordingly.
The basic life of him dominated him again, and his intelligence fled before the will of his flesh to live.
The basic life that was in him took charge of him.
The battle began fairly, but it did not end fairly.
The beast was upon its belly, moving forward very slowly.
The beating that had gone before was as nothing compared with the beating he now received.
The beginning of such a fight was a signal for all the young dogs in camp to come running and pitch upon him.
The big bull was beset on every side.
The blacks, their eyes protruding in horror, watched spellbound.
The black warrior was furious and frightened, but more frightened than furious.
The blankets in the other bunk stirred irritably.
The bloodhounds vainly quested on the lost trail.
The blows came faster, heavier, more shrewd to hurt.
The blows increased.
The blow was like a flash of light.
The body of Tublat lay where it had fallen, for the people of Kerchak do not eat their own dead.
The brilliant stones gleamed strangely against his smooth, brown hide.
The broad pads of his feet were bruised and bleeding.
The broad pads of their feet were spread wide and in contact with the snow were like velvet.
The bulging back of Cherokee's neck was the only portion of his body that White Fang's teeth could reach.
The bull- dog did little but keep his grip.
The bull-dog had managed to roll him over on his back, and still hanging on to his throat, was on top of him.
The bull-dog's method was to hold what he had, and when opportunity favoured to work in for more.
The bull-dog stood too short, while its massive jaws were an added protection.
The bull-dog was bleeding back of one ear from a rip in his thick neck.
The bullet had but inflicted a painful wound in one of the great shoulders.
The bullet had done its work.
The bullet had struck a glancing blow upon the skull.
The business of love was at hand--ever a sterner and crueller business than that of food-getting.
The cabin was deserted.
The camp-sounds came to his ears.
The canoe shoved off.
The captain had emptied his revolver and was reloading as the charge was made.
The captain, while a competent seaman, was a brute in his treatment of his men.
The car had been to him no more than a room in a house, and when he had entered it the city had been all around him.
The carriage had driven away, and other strange gods had appeared from out the house.
The carriage was bearing the master away.
The cell was of iron, the floor, the walls, the roof.
The chance came in one of his quick doublings and counter-circlings.
The chickens he calmly ignored.
The children welcomed White Fang with glad cries and ran to meet him.
The circle of flame and coals was breaking into segments with openings in between.
The clay of him had been so moulded in the making.
The clay of him was so moulded.
The code he learned was to obey the strong and to oppress the weak.
The coffin, at the side of the fire, served for seat and table.
The coming of daylight dispelled his fears but increased his loneliness.
The commander selected twenty men and two officers, Lieutenant D'Arnot and Lieutenant Charpentier.
The conduct of the white strangers it was that caused him the greatest perturbation.
The cries of the gorilla proclaimed that it was in mortal combat with some other denizen of the fierce wood.
The cub could not understand.
The cub cowered closer to the ground.
The cub entertained a great respect for his mother.
The cub experienced another access of affection on the part of his mother.
The cub felt his mother wilting at the sound.
The cub felt the prod of the life that was in him, and stood up and snarled valiantly by his mother's side.
The cub found no more milk in his mother's breast, nor did he get one mouthful of meat for himself.
The cub had never seen man, yet the instinct concerning man was his.
The cub received a clout on the other side of his head.
The cub saw little of the battle.
The cub's fear of the unknown was an inherited distrust, and it had now been strengthened by experience.
The cub's shoulder was stiff and sore, and for some time he limped from the terrible slash he had received.
The cubs slept, while the life that was in them flickered and died down.
The curve of his neck was turned toward his rival.
The dancers halted as though turned to stone.
The days came and went, but never the master.
The days came and went, streaming their unbroken sunshine over the Santa Clara Valley.
The day's events had prepared him for the unknown to manifest itself in most stupendous and unthinkable ways.
The days passed by, and they kept together, hunting their meat and killing and eating it in common.
The days were growing longer.
The day was a repetition of the days that had gone before.
The day was like all the days.
The day wore along, and nothing rewarded his hunt.
The day wore on, and still Tarzan of the Apes crouched above the unsuspecting woman at the cauldron.
The death blow had not been struck.
The deep cannonade of roaring thunder belched forth its fearsome challenge.
The deluge came--all hell broke loose upon the jungle.
The desire to close had always been mutual.
The difference between them was that the guard carried a bunch of keys and a revolver.
The different lines were rapidly approaching a point.
The dislike of the wolf for close quarters was his to an unusual degree.
The dog-musher indicated White Fang with a backward thrust of his thumb.
The dog-musher laid his hand on Beauty Smith's shoulder and faced him to the right about.
The dog-musher let go of him precipitately, with action similar to that of a man who has picked up live fire.
The dog-musher made a rush of it, and White Fang dodged between the legs of a group of men.
The dog-musher put the rifle down solemnly, then turned and looked at his employer.
The dog-musher secured a club and went over to the chained animal.
The dog-musher, still on his knees and stooped over White Fang, calculated for a moment.
The dog-musher surveyed the stricken dog.
The dog-musher swore softly, in awe-stricken accents.
The dogs clustered together in fear, now and again snarling menacingly as a pair of eyes drew close.
The dogs had lain down in the snow, and he walked past them to join his partner in the sled.
The dogs had quarrels among themselves, but these were forgotten when trouble was brewing with White Fang.
The dogs he had fought with did not fight that way.
The dogs that still lived, looked on and understood.
The dogs were drawn apart, the bull-dog struggling vigorously.
The dogs worked in single file, one behind another, hauling on double traces.
The dog was unable to gnaw through the leather at his own end of the stick.
The door of the pen was being opened again.
The door opened, and Weedon Scott stepped in.
The door was burst open.
The door was opened wider.
The door would open, and thrust in upon him would come the awful electric car.
The dreaded white god was not there.
The dropping of the thing out of the open sky was a miracle well aimed to work upon their superstitious fears.
The dust of the road arose in a cloud and screened the battle.
The duties of kingship among the anthropoids are not many or arduous.
The earth struck him a harsh blow on the nose that made him yelp.
The effect on White Fang was to give him a greater faith in himself, and a greater pride.
The elder Scott looked incredulously, first at White Fang, then at Dick, and finally at his son.
The end was as sudden as the beginning.
The ethics of all the others meted a quick and merciful death to their victims.
The face above her was one of extraordinary beauty.
The fact that he had but one eye, and that the left eye, might account for this.
The fact that they alone of all the party were unarmed might account for the fact that they had killed no one.
The family was on the porch, taking the cool of the afternoon, when White Fang arrived.
The famine was gone.
The famine was over.
the fangs of a greater!  Do mighty fighters fly to the trees at the challenge of his kind.
The faro-dealer stooped down obediently and got a firm hold on Cherokee.
The fascination of the light for the grey cub increased from day to day.
The faster he ran, the faster ran the one he was after, and the faster ran all the dogs.
The feel of him was bad.
The fellow proved most ungrateful.
The fellow was shouting and waving his spear above his head.
The figure at the stake was very still, yet the black warriors were but pricking it.
The fire died down, and the gleaming eyes drew closer the circle they had flung about the camp.
The fire was burning low.
The first object they encountered was the dripping fangs of the hungry lioness.
The footing looked good.
The forest echoed to the savage and triumphant paean.
The forest ended abruptly and beyond lay two hundred yards of planted fields between the jungle and the village.
The four Indians laughed more loudly, while even the man who had been bitten began to laugh.
The Frenchman called faintly.
The Frenchman had been watching him, and knew that Tarzan was puzzled over the envelope.
The Frenchman looked about him.
The frightened household clustered at the top of the stairway.
The front man turned his head until his eyes met the eyes of the man behind.
The frost was in his feet, and he kept lifting first one fore- foot and then the other.
The fuel had run out, and there was need to get more.
The fun was over until the next steamer should arrive.
The furnishings and other contents of the room it was which riveted his attention.
The Fuwalda was no exception to the rule.
The gang-plank was hauled in, and the _Aurora_ swung out from the bank.
The gaze of his fellows was upon him, but still he hesitated.
The genial, playful, puppyish side of him found little expression.
The girl came close to him, looking up with pleading eyes.
The girl had entirely forgotten it.
The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.
The girl nodded and started toward the door leading to the narrow veranda of the little hotel.
The girl's head went high.
The girl shuddered, and when they told her that the cruiser would sail on the morrow she was almost glad.
The girl was trying to collect her thoughts.
The gleaming eyes were fixed upon her in intent ferocity.
The god had no club, so he suffered him to approach quite near.
The god merely held near to his nose a piece of meat.
The god sat down several feet away.
The god's hand had come out and was descending upon his head.
The gods held the power of life and death over their subjects, and the gods were jealous of their power.
The gods were ever crafty, and they had unguessed ways of attaining their ends.
The god was actually offering him another piece of meat.
The god went on talking.
The good stands for all things that bring easement and satisfaction and surcease from pain.
the gorilla country.
The grasp upon Canler's throat relaxed.
The great apes come often to this spot, and if they found you here, wounded and alone, they would kill you.
The great beast stopped and, turning, eyed the taunting figure above her.
The great trees bent in unison as though pressed earthward by a mighty hand.
The green turf looked soft and cool and inviting.
The grey cub could not understand this.
The grey cub's eyes had not been open long, yet already he could see with steady clearness.
The grip had been joined by two large canvas bags and a box.
The grip was the thing, and the grip he kept.
The guard treated him unfairly, lied about him to the warden, lost his credits, persecuted him.
The gun was on the way to his shoulder, but it never got there.
The hair began to rise on his neck and across the shoulders.
The hair bristled upon the grey cub's back, but it bristled silently.
The hair rippled up along his back at the sight.
The hand lifted and descended again in a patting, caressing movement.
The hand, poised like doom above  The other Indians laughed loudly, and urged the man on to pick up the cub.
The hands of society are harsh, and this man was a striking sample of its handiwork.
The hand was jerked back, and the teeth came together emptily with a sharp click.
The hand, with fingers crooked and spread apart, rubbed his stomach in a playful way and rolled him from side to side.
The hawk had eaten the ptarmigan-mother.
The hawk would also have eaten him.
The heritage was too compelling for a wolf that was only a cub.
The horse stood saddled and waiting at the door.
The hubbub died down.
The hunting warriors emerged from the forest, and when all were within the palisade the gates were closed and barred.
The Indians heard it too.
The intent of the snarl is to warn or frighten, and judgment is required to know when it should be used.
Their bodies were covered with fur and soft-tanned leather.
Their bristly fur was rimed with frost.
Their interests and his were far removed.
Their journey was a miracle of ease.
Their leaps and bounds increased, their bared fangs dripped saliva, and their lips and breasts were flecked with foam.
Their mother looked apprehensively in their direction.
Their only effect upon him, however, was to make him uneasy and restless without his knowing what was the matter.
Their ribs is like wash-boards, an' their stomachs is right up against their backbones.
Their stringy muscles seemed founts of inexhaustible energy.
Their water was gone, and in another day they would be without food.
Their work done the sailors returned to the small boat, and pulled off rapidly toward the Arrow.
the jungle there is none so great.
The knife with its sheath and belt caught his eye; he appropriated them.
The land itself ceased at the county road.
The last dog had been driven back.
The last few inches to the wall of the tepee were crawled with painful slowness and precaution.
The last growl could never be extracted from him.
The latter eyed them in puzzled bewilderment.
The latter regarded him wistfully, started away, then returned and whined softly.
The latter's breath was drawn with greater and greater difficulty as the moments went by.
The latter seemed to Tarzan a most useless encumbrance, so he threw his away.
The latter was not to be censured for his misjudgment.
The latter were afraid of him, while he merely refrained from attacking them.
The laughter of men was a hateful thing.
The law was being lived about him by all live things, and he himself was part and parcel of the law.
The law was: EAT OR BE EATEN.
The lessons were not tender that he had learned of their tyranny and cruelty in the days of the Indian villages.
The life that was so swiftly expanding within him, urged him continually toward the wall of light.
The life that was within him knew that it was the one way out, the way he was predestined to tread.
The light had become painfully bright.
The lion also had quickened his gait, and was doggedly maintaining an unvarying distance behind them.
The lion below them paced nervously back and forth.
The lioness was now back in the path where she could see the author of the indignity which had been placed upon her.
The lion was bounding along in easy leaps scarce five paces behind.
The little fellow crouched trembling just an instant, but that instant was quite long enough to prove his undoing.
The locket had belonged to Lord Greystoke, and the likenesses were of himself and Lady Alice.
The log cabins he had known were replaced by towering buildings.
The long bow which had been Kulonga's hung over his left shoulder.
The longer he walked, the better he walked.
The longest day never played White Fang out.
The lordship of man was a need of his nature.
The lust to kill was on him.
The lynx-mother would have eaten him had she not herself been killed and eaten.
The lynx's bad temper got the best of her.
The magnificent diamond locket which hung about Tarzan's neck, had been a source of much wonderment to Jane.
The man-animals were gods unmistakable and unescapable.
The man attempted to step out of his circle of flame, but the wolves surged to meet him.
The man had been hard hit--D'Arnot realized it now--but why?  He could not understand.
The man had lowered his rifle and now advanced with outstretched hand.
Them animals is damn hungry, an' once they  They camped early that night.
The man left the room, but presently returned with a little hardwood box which he placed on his superior's desk.
The man only shook his head and pointed to the pencil and the bark.
The man sat down on his blankets in a crouching position.
The man started in surprise, but with a bound was at the side of the sleeping man.
The man stopped with upraised spear and faced the brush from which issued the awful sound.
The man turned, and rising, came toward the shelter.
The man waited in vain for them to go.
The man was badly frightened.
The man was small and rather old, so that the brutality of the act was thus accentuated.
The man who had spoken came over to her.
The march was but a leisurely search for food.
The master came to the door and called White Fang inside.
The master himself was looking on and did not interfere.
The master rubbed his ears, and he crooned his love-growl.
The master's domain was wide and complex, yet it had its metes and bounds.
The master's lips tightened as he faced the disagreeable task.
The master stopped the carriage.
The master's voice was sufficient.
The master's wife all the women called him the Blessed Wolf.
The master talked to him gently but seriously, and he cocked his ears, and listened with painful intentness.
The master thought of writing a note, but searched his pockets vainly for pencil and paper.
The master was running up, but was too far away; and it was Collie that saved the hound's life.
The master was still in the cabin.
The master went out on horseback a great deal, and to accompany him was one of White Fang's chief duties in life.
The master with his toe helped one sprawling puppy toward him.
The mastiff shook his head, growled hoarsely, and plunged at White Fang.
The meat was good meat, and White Fang was hungry.
The men accompanied him to the edge of the jungle, where he left his clothes in a small storehouse.
The men argued angrily for a moment.
The men at the saloon even urged the dogs on to attack White Fang.
The men crowded about Tarzan with many questions, but his only answer was a laughing depreciation of his feat.
The men in the fort disdained the newcomers and enjoyed seeing them come to grief.
The men jumped out and lifted the great chest to the sand.
The men laughed, all but D'Arnot.
The men put down their burdens, and then one caught sight of the notice which Tarzan had posted.
The men stood silent for some moments and then slowly turned and walked back to the hotel veranda.
The men toiled without speech across the face of the frozen world.
The men turned and looked at one another.
The men upon the veranda had sat for an hour, almost in silence.
The men were working backwards toward the little party who were facing away from the sailors.
The men who came ashore from the steamers were newcomers.
The mere sight of Beauty Smith was sufficient to send him into transports of fury.
The message was from D'Arnot.
The moment the sled started, the team took after Lip-lip in a chase that extended throughout the day.
The money he had received for his furs and mittens and moccasins began to go.
The months passed by.
The months went by, binding stronger and stronger the covenant between dog and man.
The moonlight flooded the beach, and the strange group stood out in bold relief against the yellow sand.
The morning after the Dum-Dum the tribe started slowly back through the forest toward the coast.
The mother called them to her and comforted them, telling them not to bother White Fang.
The mother ptarmigan was in a fury.
Then a change in their position diverted him.
Then again came the prod of his instinct and the warning of past experience.
Then a huge dog was thrust inside, and the door was slammed shut behind him.
The naked earth, which so shortly before had been so populous; thrust his loneliness more forcibly upon him.
Then all fight fled out of him.
Then all the boys attacked Mit-sah.
Then all the quills drooped quite down, and the body relaxed and moved no more.
Then, and quite suddenly, he became aware of loneliness.
Then, as one, the males rushed headlong upon the thing which their terrific blows had reduced to a mass of hairy pulp.
The natives filed up the street, four of them bearing the dead body of Kulonga.
The natives in the field dropped their implements and broke madly for the palisade.
The natives were not yet in sight, though he could plainly hear them approaching across the plantation.
Then, at the same instant, he saw and smelt.
The natural course of his life had been diverted, and, recoiling from his kind, he had clung to the human.
Then began a fire fight.
Then, between them, mother and cub, they ate the blood-drinker, and after that went back to the cave and slept.
Then, between them, the she-wolf and One Eye devoured the game which the mysterious sapling had caught for them.
Then came a momentary fear, when he yelped several times to the impact of the hand.
Then came the day when the last bandage and the last plaster cast were taken off.
Thenceforth, in the nature of things, he would possess an abiding distrust of appearances.
Then Clayton stooped and picked it up.
Then Clayton turned back slowly toward the cabin.
Then comes Tana, shrieking and holding tight her side from which blood is streaming.
Then D'Arnot tried English, but still the man shook his head.
The new-comer did not understand.
The newcomer turned upon the crowd.
The next day Tarzan was practicing with his bow and arrows at the first gleam of dawn.
The next day White Fang's anxiety and restlessness were even more pronounced.
The next few minutes the young Englishman never forgot.
The next instant he was on his feet, but in that instant Cherokee's teeth closed on his throat.
The next instant Weedon Scott had White Fang by the throat and was dragging him clear.
The next moment he received a clout alongside the head that knocked him over on his side.
The next moment his nose was laid open, and he was staggering backward away from the meat.
The next moment she was at his throat, her teeth buried in his hair and flesh.
The next moment the flash of yellow reappeared before his eyes.
The next moment the master arrived, and with one hand held White Fang, while the father called off the dogs.
The next morning Clayton left early with the relief expedition in search of Lieutenant D'Arnot.
The next morning Jane found her missing letter in the exact spot from which it had disappeared two nights before.
The next morning they set out upon the return march.
Then Grey Beaver took a knife from a sheath that hung around his neck, and went into the thicket and cut a stick.
Then he and Judge Scott, revolvers in hand, cautiously descended.
Then he applied his teeth to the thong, and in the space of ten seconds was free.
Then he became angry.
Then he began rolling down the slope, over and over.
Then he began to laugh derisively and scornfully.
Then he began to make out a word here and a word there.
Then he broke loose.
Then he called Professor Porter to his side, and the two argued in low tones for several minutes.
Then he continued digging until he had unearthed the chest.
Then he crawled back into the blankets.
Then he crawled into the heart of a dense thicket and waited.
Then he discovered him, standing where he had been lying, near to the stove.
Then he discovered his mistake and tried to placate her.
Then he discovered it.
Then he fought, his teeth flashing in a snap that sank them into the hand.
Then he heard a great outcry of snarls and yelps.
Then he leaped clear.
Then he led her to a small pine, around which he tied the other string.
Then he left him to follow voluntarily.
Then he licked his chops in quite the same way his mother did, and began to crawl out of the bush.
Then he looked back eagerly and questioningly at the master.
Then he melted away into the jungle as softly and as noiselessly as a shadow.
Then he perceived that they were very little, and he became bolder.
Then he realised that this was Mit-sah, one of his own particular gods, who was being maltreated.
Then he remembered, and, turning on the back- track, started for home, carrying the ptarmigan in his mouth.
Then he resumed his course and trotted on along the base of the bluff.
Then he returned and took up his burden.
Then he sallied forth.
Then he sat up and felt of various portions of his anatomy.
Then he saw that no harm befell the dogs that were near to them, and he came in closer.
Then he smelled the strange fabric, saturated with the man-smell.
Then he stood back, surveyed his work, and grinned.
Then he stopped, undecided, and looked back over his shoulder.
Then he talked harshly to the unwitting culprit, and in his voice there was nothing but godlike wrath.
Then he took another pencil, but this time he had a definite object in view.
Then he tried to be more dignified, and the master laughed harder than before.
Then he turned and bent over White Fang, standing by his side.
Then he turned and trotted back to Grey Beaver's camp.
Then he turned deliberately and took the right fork.
Then he was aroused by Grey Beaver's voice calling him by name.
Then he went back again into the jungle and in a few minutes reappeared with a quantity of soft grasses and ferns.
Then he went forward again.
Then he went to the desk and took up the unsealed letter addressed to Tarzan.
Then he would seize brands from the fire and hurl them into the pack.
Then he wrote upon a piece of paper and shoved it beneath the partition.
Then his nose touched the flame, and at the same instant his little tongue went out to it.
Then his weakness asserted itself, and he lay down, his ears cocked, his head on one side, as he watched the puppy.
Then I counted the dogs an' there was still six of 'em.
The nightmare city was gone.
The night was a repetition of the night before, save that the need for sleep was becoming overpowering.
The night yawned about him.
Then I had no right to   ain't had no chance yet.
Then I'll see that yer gover'ment's notified where you be an' they'll soon send a man-o'war to fetch ye off.
Then inside other fences were the particular domains of other gods.
Then it rolled among the women and stopped beside the half-butchered thing they were preparing to feast upon.
Then it was that no cuff nor sharp word was necessary before they could pat him.
Then it was that Tarzan of the Apes saw his chance.
Then it was that White Fang struck.
Then Jim Hall went to his living death.
Then Kulonga sprang into a near-by tree.
Then Mbonga emerged, a look of mingled wrath and superstitious fear writ upon his hideous countenance.
Then naught came up out of the blackness save a heavy panting of some creature struggling sorely for air.
The noise from downstairs was as that of a score of battling fiends.
The noise he made was too much for the moose-bird, who sought safety in flight.
Then One Eye, creeping and crawling, every sense on the alert, every hair radiating infinite suspicion, joined her.
Then one of them laughed and slapped the little man upon the back.
Then one of them spoke.
Then Scott looked around the room.
Then she ate the dogs.
Then she distinctly heard the beast outside sniffing at the door, not two feet from where she crouched.
Then she extinguished the lamp and all within the cabin was wrapped in Cimmerian darkness.
Then she fell to backing away and sneezing, her nose bristling with quills like a monstrous pin-cushion.
Then she loosened the soft mass of golden hair which crowned her head.
Then she raised it to her lips, and crushing it there buried her face in the soft ferns, sobbing.
Then she sprang away, up the trail, squalling with every leap she made.
Then she was dragged toward those awful fangs which yawned at her throat.
Then, squatting upon his haunches, he proceeded to eat, first motioning Clayton to join him.
Then, suddenly, the jungle giants whipped back, lashing their mighty tops in angry and deafening protest.
Then Tarzan returned, hunting, always hunting, to the cabin by the beach.
Then Tarzan set off toward the north, leading the now thoroughly frightened professor and his secretary.
Then the circle would lie down again, and here and there a wolf would resume its broken nap.
Then the end of the thong was given over to him by Grey Beaver.
Then their noses touched, and he felt the warm little tongue of the puppy on his jowl.
Then the master took him into the chicken-yards.
Then the passages were tinged with a subdued happiness that was even sadder than the rest.
Then the rat-faced one, with several companions, ascended the low bluff on which stood the tree that concealed Tarzan.
Then there came to Terkoz's rescue the same thing that had put him in these sore straits--a man's reasoning power.
Then there rose suddenly above the fiendish cries of the dancing demons the awful challenge of the ape-man.
Then there was a payment of bets, and money clinked in Beauty Smith's hand.
Then there was his lightning quickness.
Then there were cats, and rabbits, and turkeys; all these he must let alone.
Then there were long, deep-drawn sniffs.
Then the sharp cry of a squaw inside sent him scampering back to Kiche.
Then the she- wolf sat down, pointed her nose at a star, and began to howl.
Then the two vessels were to leave with all the party.
Then they came upon moose.
Then they sat down together again upon the edge of the drum and tried to talk by signs.
Then they sat down upon a bench with their arms about one another, and waited.
Then they turned to White Fang.
The nuts they cracked between their powerful jaws, or, if too hard, broke by pounding between stones.
Then was added to the uproar the cub's shrill yelp of pain and fright.
Then White Fang struck.
Then with his foot upon the carcass of Numa, he raised his voice in the awesome victory cry of his savage tribe.
The occasional blows of sticks and stones he had previously experienced were as caresses compared with this.
The officers arose and saluted as their superior approached, and Clayton surrendered his camp stool to Jane.
The old and the weak of them died of hunger.
The old familiar feelings of that time came back upon him, surged up within him.
The old man looked up, regarding the strong, handsome face of William Cecil Clayton intently.
The one might wag, but the others held their terrible grip on White Fang's throat.
The one thing of which he had always been particularly jealous was his head.
The only change in it that they could notice was an accession of alertness.
The only way out was between the two tepees, and this the boy guarded.
The open space was almost circular in shape.
The other end of the stick, in turn, was made fast to a stake in the ground by means of a leather thong.
The other, in a woman's hand, was sealed.
The other kind included all live things that moved.
The other looked at him incredulously.
The other men came up, and surrounded her, and felt her, and pawed her, which actions she made no attempt to resent.
The other portion killed and ate his own kind, or was killed and eaten by his own kind.
The other seemed to be judging him in a non-committal sort of way.
The others hastened to gather about.
The others of the party were of different stamp.
The other suspicion was allayed.
The pair paused and surveyed the locked dogs.
The pale light of the short sunless day was beginning to fade, when a faint far cry arose on the still air.
The parts of him were better adjusted than those of the average dog.
The party now entered the modest little hostelry, where Clayton soon made arrangements for their entertainment.
The path wound through the jungle in a northeasterly direction, and along it the column moved in single file.
The photograph he liked most of all, for the eyes were smiling, and the face was open and frank.
The photograph of the smiling, strong-faced young man, and the little black puzzle book were safe.
The pictures interested him greatly.
The pitch to which he was aroused was tremendous.
The policeman looked up, and, catching his eye, raised his finger to admonish silence.
The poor dear cannot differentiate between erudition  Mr.
The poor dear is SO    this cabin while I am searching for your father and Mr.
The porcupine had at last decided that its enemy had gone away.
The porcupine met his approach with a furious squealing and a clashing of its long teeth.
The porcupine might unroll.
The porcupine rolled itself into a ball, radiating long, sharp needles in all directions that defied attack.
the Porters than with it.
The possession of a god implies service.
The prisoners were herded into three huts where they were heavily guarded.
The professor had been stricken dumb with surprise by the rapid developments of the past few minutes.
The ptarmigan dragged him out of the bush.
The ptarmigan struggled against him, showering blows upon him with her free wing.
The puppy's name, as White Fang was afterward to hear him called, was Lip-lip.
The puppy sprawled in front of him.
The quiet water had become suddenly angry.
The quivering came to an end suddenly.
The rat-faced sailor had half drawn his revolver; the other sailors stood watching the scene intently.
Thereafter they spoke no more, though their ears were keen for the hunting-cries that continued to rise behind them.
there are two friends in that jungle who will come out of it some day expecting to find us awaiting them.
The reasonableness of the arguments of these disinterested French officers commenced to convince her against her will.
There, buzzing in the air at the tip of his nose, was a lone mosquito.
There came a day, in this land of plenty, when the wolf-pack split in half and went in different directions.
There came a time when not only did the meat-supply cease, but the milk no longer came from his mother's breast.
There could be but one ending.
There could be but one result, and that was that his ferocity fed upon itself and increased.
There D'Arnot was bound securely to the great post from which no live man had ever been released.
Therefore, he had disobeyed the will of both the gods, and earned the consequent punishment.
Therefore, the good is liked.
Therefore White Fang obeyed him.
There had been no reservation on White Fang's part, and the bond was not to be broken easily.
There had been no useless gnawing.
There had been warning, but White Fang was unversed in such things and did not understand the packing of a grip.
There he drowsed, only half asleep, his ears keyed for the first sound of the familiar step.
There he perched, hurling taunts and insults at the raging, foaming beast fifty feet below him.
There is a large likelihood of internal injuries.
there is among ourselves.
There is another I should like to thank also, but he did not come back, though I cannot believe that he is dead.
There is no getting away from it.
There is only one way to keep him in safety, and that is to chain him to a tree.
There it is absolute.
the remainder of the master's language, he knew it was his will that he should go home.
There might be opportunity for a deft and ripping thrust of paw into the tender, unguarded belly.
The repeated drenchings in the icy water had likewise had their effect on him.
There seemed untold numbers of these white men.
There she paused for an instant feeling about with her hands for the thing she sought.
The restful loneliness of the only life he had known was gone.
The rest he left where it had fallen.
There stood Tarzan, his arms filled with ripe and luscious fruit.
The resulting action was a compromise.
The result was a sharp peck on the end of his nose that made him cower down and ki-yi.
The result was that he was slowly throttling White Fang.
The return of the love-master was enough.
The revolver exploded harmlessly in the air, and the seaman crumpled up with a scream of pain and terror.
There was about him no consciousness of sin.
There was a burgeoning within him of strange feelings and unwonted impulses.
There was a carriage waiting.
There was a correspondence in rhythm between the growls and the movements of the man's hands.
There was a crunching of fragile bones, and warm blood ran in his mouth.
There was a death-struggle, during which White Fang walked around, stiff-legged and observant.
There was a difference between White Fang and them.
There was a final defiant clash of the long teeth.
There was a flash of flame, the roar of the discharge, and an answering roar of pain and anger from the beast.
There was a flash of yellow before his eyes.
There was a greater movement.
There was a great row that night.
There was a great snarling and growling, a clashing of teeth and a flurry of bodies.
There was a great snarling and growling, and over all arose a smashing and crashing of furniture and glass.
There was a great snarling and yelping.
There was a great uproar.
There was a grunt from Weedon Scott's bunk, and a stir of blankets.
There was a jingle of bells.
There was a leap, a flash of teeth, a sharp exclamation.
There was a movement of the hand above him.
There was a new note in his mate's warning snarl.
There was an ugly flesh wound, but no signs of a fracture of the skull.
There was a playfulness about her nips and a gentleness that prevented them from really hurting him.
There was a sensation as of flying, and then he lost consciousness.
There was a tremendous snarling and spitting and screeching.
There was but one thing to do, make camp where they were until daylight.
There was food in plenty.
There was fresh meat in camp!  White Fang expected a beating.
There was, furthermore, another virtue in the fan-formation.
There was great scurrying about on deck.
There was his wife, Alice, and then there were his children, Weedon and Maud, toddlers of four and six.
There was in the whole atmosphere of the craft that undefinable something which presages disaster.
There was Judge Scott, and there was his wife.
There was much in other matters for White Fang to learn.
There was much more talk and gesticulating, but less quarreling.
There was much to interest him.
There was never any telling what might happen, for with live things events were somehow always happening differently.
There was no common speech by which he might learn what he wanted to know.
There was no defence for him.
There was no end to the strange things these gods did, and he was always curious to see.
There was no escape for White Fang.
There was no escaping it.
There was no escaping that grip.
There was no fan-formation of the team.
There was no hope for the mastiff from the first.
There was no longer any resistance to be overcome.
There was no more lunging about now.
There was no need for him to go and see what had happened.
There was no need for this caution.
there was no panic in her fright.
There was no place for her in his scheme of things, as there was no place for him in hers.
There was no place to which to flee.
There was no response, and then D'Arnot placed his ear above the man's heart.
There was no sound, and he glided into the semi-darkness of the interior.
There was no suggestion of form in the utter blackness; only could be seen a pair of eyes gleaming like live coals.
There was no sympathetic relation between his tail and his massive jaws.
There was no telling.
There was no telling what unknown terrors were theirs, what unknown hurts they could administer.
There was no telling when the god's ulterior motive might be disclosed.
There was no thick mat of fur to baffle White Fang's teeth as they were often baffled by dogs of his own breed.
There was nothing else for him to do.
There was nothing strange about it.
There was nothing threatening about her.
There was nothing to do, nothing to see nor hear.
There was no whimpering nor wailing.
There was now much resting and sleeping.
There was no work for him to do.
There was one strange thing about this wall of light.
There was plenty of food and no work in the Southland, and White Fang lived fat and prosperous and happy.
There was reason for it, and none knew it better than she.
There was something calling to him out there in the open.
There was their mastery over all these sharp-fanged dogs.
There was the tenacity with which he clung to the earth.
There were butcher-shops where meat hung within reach.
There were cats at the houses the master visited that must be let alone.
There were cries of men, and churn of sleds, the creaking of harnesses, and the eager whimpering of straining dogs.
There were days when he crept to the edge of the forest and stood and listened to something calling him far and away.
There were deeps in his nature which had never been sounded.
There were his gods, and there were other gods, and between them there was a difference.
There were hisses from the crowd and cries of protest, but that was all.
There were inequalities of surface.
There were live things and things not alive.
There were many persons to be considered.
There were naked children running and playing in the village street.
There were no formalities.
There were no inequalities of surface.
There were no more animals with which to fight--at least, there was none considered worthy of fighting with him.
There were not enough squirrels.
There were other voices.
There were revolver shots.
There were seven puppies in the team.
There were so many of the man-animals, men, women, and children, all making noises and irritations.
There were some twenty men running hither and thither about the deck, pulling and hauling on ropes.
There were ten men, swarthy, sun-tanned, villainous looking fellows.
There were the eaters and the eaten.
There were the master's two sisters, Beth and Mary.
There were three of them, and they were racing madly in single file through the dense undergrowth.
There were two hundred armed men this time, with ten officers and two surgeons, and provisions for a week.
There were two kinds of life--his own kind and the other kind.
There were two reasons, possibly, for this.
There would still be life in it, but death then would be the only charity it craved.
The roar of it no longer dinned upon his ears.
The roof barely cleared her head.
The room was tense with the silence of taut nerves.
The ropes of varying length prevented the dogs attacking from the rear those that ran in front of them.
The rope sped with singing whir high above the heads of the blacks.
The sailors stood in a frightened group, with drawn weapons, peering into the jungle.
The sapling remained bent above him.
The savage, whirling bodies circled nearer.
The second day a fever had come and D'Arnot thought that it meant infection and he knew that he would die.
The second one he turned over and over, searching for an opening--he had never seen a sealed envelope before.
These favours aroused in them jealousy and hatred.
These footprints were very fresh.
These limitations and restraints were laws.
These men had been long in the country.
These openings grew in size, the segments diminished.
These she rearranged.
The seven ptarmigan chicks and the baby weasel represented the sum of his killings.
These were always males, and they were pressingly insistent on joining with One Eye and his mate.
These were conscious actions, and were the results of his first generalisations upon the world.
These were scarcely fit weapons with which to meet the many merciless fangs.
These were so many suggestions.
The shadows were deepening, darkness was settling in.
The sharp pain and the feel of hot, trickling blood assured him of the awful reality of his hopeless position.
The she-wolf brought home meat.
The she-wolf flirted her head like the snap of a whip, breaking the weasel's hold and flinging it high in the air.
The she-wolf had by now developed a ferocious temper.
The she-wolf ran herself thin in the quest for meat.
The she-wolf's need to find the thing for which she searched had now become imperative.
The she-wolf stood over against her cub, facing the men, with bristling hair, a snarl rumbling deep in her throat.
The she-wolf, too, left her litter and went out in search of meat.
The she-wolf was angry.
The she-wolf was less than a yard from him.
The she-wolf was one leap behind One Ear and holding her own.
The she-wolf was trotting wearily along, her mate well in advance, when she came upon the overhanging, high clay-bank.
The ship came about, and presently he knew that she was beating back toward land.
the shots in the jungle, very faint and far away, he left me.
The sight that met the Frenchmen's eyes as they clambered over the ship's side was appalling.
The sight that met the poor woman's eyes was too much for the already overstrung nerves.
The sight which met his eyes confirmed his worst fears.
The silence was unbroken save by the cries of their pursuers, that, unseen, hung upon their rear.
The situation was desperate.
The situation was now reversed.
The sled- dogs had forgotten his prowess.
The sled was without runners.
The snarling of his dogs was losing its efficacy.
The soil was soft and he threw aside the pick and grasped a shovel; then the others joined him.
The stake stood forty feet from the nearest tree.
The stick prevented him from getting at the leather that fastened the other end.
The stir of the life that was in him, the play of his muscles, was an unending happiness.
The story of his own connection with the cabin had never been told him.
The strange god's foot lifted.
The stream, the lair, and the quiet woods were calling to him, and he wanted her to come.
The stream was a small one, but in the pool it widened out to a score of feet.
The struggle had not lasted more than three minutes.
The subject always made him uncomfortable.
The substance of the wall seemed as permeable and yielding as light.
The suffocation he experienced was like the pang of death.
The summer camp was being dismantled, and the tribe, bag and baggage, was preparing to go off to the fall hunting.
The sun had come back, and all the awakening Northland world was calling to him.
The sun was high in the heavens.
The sun was returning.
The superiority of these man-animals increased with every moment.
The swiftness of it was bewildering.
The tall young newcomer was forcing his way through, shouldering men right and left without ceremony or gentleness.
The task was an arduous one and required the better part of a month, though he built but one small room.
The taste of it was good.
The teeth of one had closed upon his arm.
The terms were simple.
The thing to expect of them was the unexpected, and for this he must be prepared.
The thing was done thoroughly and with despatch.
The third figure in the tree was hidden by the dense shadows near the stem.
The thong was cut across, diagonally, almost as clean as though done by a knife.
The three of them had hurried toward the village as rapidly as their legs would carry them.
The three-year-old grew too ambitious in his fierceness.
The thumb of circumstance had done its work only too well.
The thunder of the streets smote upon his ears.
The time passed by, and he slept intermittently for hours.
The time was yet to come for independence.
The tooth of every dog was against him, the hand of every man.
The tribe had gathered about to look upon the proof of his wondrous prowess, and to listen to his words.
The tribe had kept his women.
The tribe shivering from the cold rain, huddled at the bases of great trees.
The two dogs were whimpering and snarling at his feet, but she took no notice of them.
The two doors slammed at the same moment, and Weedon Scott waited for Matt to come around to the front.
The two halted at the edge of the jungle.
The two larger, they stated, had belonged to a male and female of one of the higher white races.
The two lay perfectly still upon the ground, Tarzan upon Terkoz's back.
The two men looked at each other.
The two men looked at each other.
The two men shook hands.
The two men were bent over the sled and trying to right it, when Henry observed One Ear sidling away.
The two sailors picked themselves up, the older man assisting his wounded comrade to rise.
The ubiquitous Esmeralda grunted.
The unknown bore him on he knew not to what frightful hurt, and he yelped and ki-yi'd unceasingly.
The unknown had caught him at last.
The unknown, lurking in the midst of the sticks and moss, was savagely clutching him by the nose.
The unknown with all its terrors rushed upon him, and he shrank back instinctively into the shelter of the bush.
The urge of his awakened instinct of fatherhood was strong upon him.
The village had gone away.
The village was in an uproar instantly.
The wall, inside which he had thought himself, as suddenly leaped back before him to an immeasurable distance.
The wanderings of the tribe brought them often near the closed and silent cabin by the little land-locked harbor.
The water rushed into his lungs instead of the air that had always accompanied his act of breathing.
The way was clear, and that was all he had wanted.
The weakest and the more worthless were eaten first.
The weasel let go the cub and flashed at the she-wolf's throat, missing, but getting a hold on the jaw instead.
The weasel never relaxed her hold.
The weasel was a drinker of blood, and it was ever her preference to drink from the throat of life itself.
The white men came from off these steamers and went away on them again.
The white men were no exception to this.
The will to exist of his body surged over him.
The wind ceased, the sun shone forth--nature smiled once more.
The wisest as well as strongest dog was the leader, and the team obeyed him and feared him.
The wolves had been driven back.
The wolves were gone.
The wolves were rushing him.
The woman came quickly to the center of the hut.
The woman he loved was safe.
The women and children shrieked their delight.
The women were afraid.
The wood was seasoned and dry, and it was tied so closely to his neck that he could scarcely get his teeth to it.
The word went up and down the valley, and men saw to it that their dogs did not molest the Fighting Wolf.
The world was filled with surprise.
The wounded man writhed and shrieked upon the ground.
They alone moved through the vast inertness.
They arose around him, on every side, like some monstrous quick-growing form of life.
They ate pleasant fruit and looked into each other's eyes and smiled.
They called themselves Sour-doughs, and took great pride in so classifying themselves.
They carried bedding and hammocks, the latter for transporting their sick and wounded.
They come closer every night.
They continued in the yards for half an hour.
They cooked for the master and washed the dishes and did other things just as Matt had done up in the Klondike.
They could even see these forms move at times.
They could see natives in the fields, and others moving in and out of the village gate.
They crossed low divides and ranged a dozen small streams in a lower-lying country before their quest was rewarded.
They did not bother to look after the causes of his conduct.
They did not despise him.
They did not go far--a couple of days' journey.
They did not know him for what he was, a lightning-flash of slaughter.
They did not know the cause of his outcry, only that it was a warning of danger ahead.
They did not move, but sat there, silent and ominous.
They did not speak for some minutes.
The yelping died away.
They enforced their live strength with the power of dead things.
They fell upon D'Arnot tooth and nail, beating him with sticks and stones and tearing at him with claw-like hands.
They flee man as man flees a pestilence.
They gave trail to him when he came and went or walked among them, and when he asserted his will they obeyed.
They got out of his way when he came along; nor did the boldest of them ever dare to rob him of his meat.
They got out of the way, gave trail to the grown dogs, and gave up meat to them under compulsion.
They had come to a point beyond the fire now, and he had turned back to the clearing.
They had hair instead of fur, and a few had very little hair at that.
They had hurt only the flesh of him; beneath the flesh the spirit had still raged, splendid and invincible.
They had proceeded but a short distance when a backward glance revealed to the horrified gaze of Mr.
They had wandered for miles in search of their camp, but always in the wrong direction.
They half circled about each other, tentatively, snarling and bristling.
They have hidden it here because they intend returning for it later.
They impressed him as possessing superior power, and it is on power that godhead rests.
They lay where they had fallen between the combatants.
They learned that it was when a steamer first tied to the bank that they had their fun.
They looked about for several minutes.
They looked at each other as they started to rise to their feet.
They looked upon him as legitimate prey, and as legitimate prey he looked upon them.
They made noises, and at first he was frightened at them.
They made their bread with baking-powder.
They met him with the mass-formation, otherwise he would have killed them, one by one, in a night.
They might be town-reared dogs, but the instinctive fear of the Wild was theirs just the same.
They might be very different if provided with weapons.
They might do as they pleased amongst themselves.
They might have fought, but even wooing and its rivalry waited upon the more pressing hunger-need of the pack.
They might laugh among themselves about anything they pleased except himself, and he did not mind.
They must be very near.
They occupied nearly the whole circumference of his field of vision.
The younger leader turned his head to lick a wound on his shoulder.
The younger man's excitement and apprehension for White Fang was growing.
The young leader snarled terribly, but his snarl broke midmost into a tickling cough.
The young played and frolicked about among the trees and bushes.
They patted him on the head and passed on, contented and pleased with their own daring.
They paused with instant alarm, and looked at each other suspiciously.
They possessed greater mastery over matter than the gods he had known, most powerful among which was Grey Beaver.
They quickly learned to leave him alone, neither venturing hostile acts nor making overtures of friendliness.
They ran many miles that day.
They ran through the night.
They're damn hungry,  before, but I've gone through a whole lot worse an' kept my health.
They remembered only the latest, which was his weakness and sickness.
They reminded him of children gathered about a spread table and awaiting permission to begin to eat.
They're remarkable thin.
They rushed bellowing at him.
They sailed away with the treasure to-day, but Mr.
They sat beneath the shade of a great tree, and Tarzan found some smooth bark that they might converse.
They saw no signs of natives nor were they molested by wild beasts.
They saw only the effects, and the effects were bad.
They seemed to consider him one of them and yet in some way different.
They sensed between themselves and him a difference of kind--cause sufficient in itself for hostility.
They stood side by side, watching and listening and smelling.
They strained to catch some interruption of the silence and immobility of nature.
They surrounded the cub and laughed at him, while he wailed out his terror and his hurt.
They then filled the grave with earth and tramped upon it until it would hold no more.
They travelled on without speech, saving their breath for the work of their bodies.
They've ate the leather offen both ends.
They were all about him and upon him.
They were all on their feet now, and White Fang ran down the steps, looking back for them to follow.
They were always crawling and sprawling toward it, and being driven back from it by their mother.
They were always of her now.
They were appalled by inaction and by the feel of something terrible impending.
They were as hopelessly lost as though they suddenly had been transported to another world.
They were coming back in full force.
They were evidently coming down the creek from some prospecting trip.
They were evidently no different from the black men--no more civilized than the apes--no less cruel than Sabor.
They were expressions of life, and life is always happy when it is expressing itself.
They were fire-makers! They were gods.
They were gazing at the she-wolf, who sat smiling in the snow.
They were good to eat.
They were greatly excited, and made many noises with their mouths.
They were half-brothers, only they did not know it.
They were, in short, appurtenances of the household.
They were irregular shapes and sizes.
They were known as _chechaquos_, and they always wilted at the application of the name.
They were leaping straight for him and the Factor.
They were meat, and it was hungry; and it would like to go in and eat them if it dared.
They were not prepared for his swiftness and directness, for his attack without warning.
They were on the north side of the point so that their presence was concealed from those at the cabin.
They were ordinary, unsuspecting dogs.
They were running along a narrow alley flanked on either side by a growth of young spruce.
They were running over the surface of a world frozen and dead.
They were shaking and prodding him into consciousness.
They were sounds not made by his mate, and yet they were remotely familiar.
They were superior creatures, of a verity, gods.
They were the lawful prey of any dog.
They were very happy, and they were all alone.
They worked together more smoothly and steadily.
They would stop and look at him, point him out to one another, examine him, talk of him, and, worst of all, pat him.
This accomplished, he had little trouble with them.
This also he dragged to the side of the corpse.
This always dumfounded and silenced her.
This because he considered that they were likewise possessions of the master.
This book he kept locked in a little metal box.
This but served to make the god more wrathful.
This certitude was shown by the whole pack.
This confusion in the front of the moving pack always caused confusion in the rear.
This continued, but every time the hand lifted, the hair lifted under it.
This endured for some time.
This expression of abandon and surrender, of absolute trust, he reserved for the master alone.
This faithfulness was a quality of the clay that composed him.
This famine was not a long one, but it was severe while it lasted.
This feeling had been accentuated by the Ishmaelite life he had led from his puppyhood.
This gave them the seeming of ghostly masques, undertakers in a spectral world at the funeral of some ghost.
This growl he could not suppress; nor did the man-animal resent it by giving him a blow on the head.
This had constituted the clay of him, and it had not been kindly moulded by the world.
This had happened at the end of a second and less severe famine.
This he did, and he quickly achieved for them a mighty contempt.
This he dragged from the grave and laid to one side.
This howling now bothered him.
This in itself was compensation, for it is always easier to lean upon another than to stand alone.
This is the first time I have spoken with another of my kind through written words.
This it repeated several times, till it was a short hundred yards away.
This it was which saved him from death beneath the iron muscles and tearing fangs of Terkoz.
This jaw gave the impression of ferocious determination.
This lasted several minutes, and White Fang was beginning to enjoy it, as a sort of game.
This laughter was uproarious and scornful, and at the same time the god pointed his finger derisively at White Fang.
This man was Beauty Smith.
This meat he must not touch.
This mother-weasel was so small and so savage.
This necessitated watching by day on Tarzan's part to discover where the arrows were being concealed.
This notice he stuck upon the door with a small sharp splinter of wood.
This portion was composed of the non-killers and the small killers.
This produced the desired effect.
This rush was never completed.
This seemed to satisfy his master, who flung him down roughly in the bottom of the canoe.
This served as a relish, and his hunger increased mightily; but he was too old in the world to forget his caution.
This served to form a large roll in Cherokee's mouth, the fur of which well-nigh defied his teeth.
This strange man wrote English--evidently he was an Englishman.
This they buried well up on the island, and for three years they lived there in constant hope of being rescued.
This the younger man endeavoured to accomplish by clutching the bulldog's jaws in his hands and trying to spread them.
This was a different proposition from crouching in frozen fear while the unknown lurked just alongside.
This was a female of his kind, and it was a law of his kind that the males must not fight the females.
This was an affair of the gods, and no concern of his.
This was a source of enjoyment to him.
This was doubly resented, even triply resented.
This was his one trouble in the running of the pack; but she had other troubles.
This was his severest fight, and though in the end he killed them both he was himself half killed in doing it.
This was living, though he did not know it.
This was maddening to them.
This was meat, the same as his mother gave him, only it was alive between his teeth and therefore better.
This was more of the terrible unknown.
This was no soil for kindliness and affection to blossom in.
This was not Bill's way, for he was easily angered by sharp words.
This was no time to force his love upon her, he quickly realized.
This was not without its effect on White Fang.
This was repeated a number of times.
This was something that dogs were not supposed to do.
This was the ancient covenant that the first wolf that came in from the Wild entered into with man.
This was the man that looked at White Fang, delighted in his ferocious prowess, and desired to possess him.
This was the mouth of the cave and the source of light.
This was too much for White Fang.
This White Fang quickly discovered by mixing with those that came ashore with their masters.
This wild creature had simply found it in the cabin by the beach.
those fingerprints lay in the cabin of his father, and that all my life  The policeman looked up in astonishment.
Those snaps were always delivered on the empty air.
Those white gods were strong.
Those who were killed he could not aid, those who escaped would not need his assistance.
Though a long way from his full growth, White Fang, next to Lip-lip, was the largest yearling in the village.
Though he lay down in the entrance and slept, his sleep was fitful.
Though he suffered most of the damage and was always defeated, his spirit remained unsubdued.
Though the fellow's tone was surly, his words were evidently well meant.
thought that the prompting of a magnanimous and noble character.
Three Eagles was going away on a trip up the Mackenzie to the Great Slave Lake.
Three miles to the west slept the tribe of Kerchak.
three weeks upon the march.
Through the door came a low, anxious whine, like a sobbing under the breath that had just grown audible.
Through the open door he could catch glimpses of the luggage on the floor.
Through the trees the mouth of the alley could be seen, opening out on a moonlit glade.
Throwing Clayton to the ground the beast turned upon his new enemy.
Thus addressed, the old man came slowly to where the sailors stood, followed by the other members of his party.
Thus, had White Fang never come in to the fires of man, the Wild would have moulded him into a true wolf.
Thus he learned how to inflict quick and severe damage.
Thus he made a beginning of writing.
Thus he waited, keeping perfectly quiet.
Thus he was on duty all the time, ever vigilant and faithful, the most valuable of all the dogs.
Thus he was trying to shield himself from White Fang's teeth.
Thus, in addition to the many necessities they had brought, there were also many luxuries.
Thus it was he learned the law, and ere he left the domain of the chickens, he had learned to ignore their existence.
Thus it was that Tarzan learned by experience the limitations as well as the possibilities of his strange weapon.
Thus it was with the two children.
Thus it was with White Fang.
Thus Tarzan blazed the forest trails and marked his caches.
Thus, the dog behind could never catch up with the one in front.
Thus they obtained air and proper ventilation without fear of lessening the safety of their cabin.
Thus, when he had bumped his nose on the back-wall a few times, he accepted that he would not disappear into walls.
Thus White Fang was kept in training.
Tied securely, White Fang could only rage futilely and endure the punishment.
time an' cavortin' over the landscape in the bellies of twenty different  But Bill shook his head.
Tim Keenan gave a final shove forward and stepped back again.
Tim Keenan joined one of the groups.
Tim Keenan shoved toward the centre of the circle, short and squat and ungainly.
Tim Keenan strode into the ring.
To all appearances he looked like a dog that had been strangled to death.
To antithesis was due his naming.
To be obedient to them was to escape hurt and make for happiness.
To be sure, White Fang only felt these things.
To-day our little boy is six months old.
Today there was no sign of the man about, and from where they watched they could see that the cabin door was open.
Today we may go out and stumble upon a lion which is over-timid--he runs away from us.
Together they crashed to the floor.
To give point to unending pursuit of the leader, Mit-sah favoured him over the other dogs.
TO HAZEL STRONG, BALTIMORE, MD.
To him it signified death.
To him it stood as the greatest of hurts.
To him life was never monotonous or stale.
To his agility, to his brain and to his long keen knife he owed his supremacy.
To his dim comprehension they were as much wonder-workers as gods are to men.
To his joy he heard its steady beating beneath.
To his mind this was power unusual, power inconceivable and beyond the natural, power that was godlike.
To his surprise, it responded to his will as in days gone by.
to it, there was my own grief--the greatest I have ever known.
To Jane the strange apparition of this god-like man was as wine to sick nerves.
To keep one's feet in the midst of the hostile mass meant life, and this he learnt well.
To kill was the law of the wild world he knew.
to look at the police officer.
to-morrow, as soon as it is light, I shall take what food I can carry and continue the search until I have found Jane.
To-morrow we may meet his uncle or his twin brother, and our friends wonder why we do not return from the jungle.
To none of these evidences of a fearful tragedy of a long dead day did little Tarzan give but passing heed.
Too late One Ear learned his mistake.
Too long had he cultivated reticence, aloofness, and moroseness.
To run down meat was to experience thrills and elations.
To say nothing of three bullet holes clear through him.
To see her alive seemed almost unbelievable.
To such an extent was he tormented, that he hated blindly and without the faintest spark of reason.
To Tarzan they stand out boldly against all the myriad other scars and bruises and signs upon the leafy way.
To Tarzan this was always a source of never-ending mystery and pleasure.
To them it seemed like hours.
To those that survived it was not tragedy, but realisation and achievement.
Tousley bowed and beamed.
True, he was a god, but a most savage god.
Tublat, her mate, always hated Tarzan, and on several occasions had come near ending his youthful career.
turned to see her standing, wide-eyed and wondering, close beside him.
Turning her head she buried her face in her arms.
turning toward the door; but his companion was not there.
Twenty feet away towered a huge dead spruce.
Twice more he saw him hurl his arrows of destruction--once at Dango, the hyena, and again at Manu, the monkey.
Twilight drew down and night came on, and White Fang lay by his mother's side.
Two by two, male and female, the wolves were deserting.
Two days later, D'Arnot was tottering about the amphitheater, Tarzan's strong arm about him to keep him from falling.
Two keen eyes had watched every move of the party from the foliage of a nearby tree.
Two more attempts he made to rejoin the tribe, but on each occasion he was set upon and driven away.
Two more trips he made until he had quite a pile of material at hand.
Two nights and a day he spent in the cabin.
Two nights later came the act, but on a more generous scale than the master had anticipated.
Two of the corpses appeared to have been partially devoured as though by wolves.
Two of their number had gone down before the captain's revolver.
undercloths, and the growing stain of red.
Unfortunately for them both, Mr.
Unlike any animals he had ever encountered, they did not bite nor claw.
Unlike any other wall with which he had had experience, this wall seemed to recede from him as he approached.
Unseen and occultly, the gods still gripped with their power and would not let her go.
Upon a pile of grasses at the far side of the room lay the Negress asleep.
Upon his inward sight was impressed a succession of memory-pictures.
Up that staircase the way led to the love-master and to the love- master's dearest possessions.
Up, up he went to the waving pinnacle of a lofty monarch of the forest where his heavy pursuer dared not follow him.
Up went the hunting knife, and then the woman turned to last been successful.
Usually this occurred at night, so as to avoid interference from the mounted police of the Territory.
us with the treasure aboard it will all be confiscated anyway.
Varying were the emotions that surged through him.
Very respectfully, WM.
Wants to know what has become of you, and I don't  It was as Matt had said.
Water was not alive.
Weaker and weaker became the lioness's efforts.
Weak from suffering and loss of blood, he would have fallen but for the strong arm that caught him.
Weapons hung against the walls--long spears, strangely shaped knives, a couple of narrow shields.
We'd have six dogs at the present time, 'stead of three, if it wasn't for her.
Weedon Scott bent over, removed the arm and turned the man's face upward.
Weedon Scott did not hear.
Weedon Scott had believed that he was quick enough to avoid any snap or slash.
Weedon Scott laughed.
Weedon Scott listened.
Weedon Scott patted him, and his throat rumbled an acknowledging growl.
Weedon Scott pressed a button, and the staircase and downstairs hall were flooded with light.
Weedon Scott reading the letter down in Circle City, came upon the following:  dogs is licking him.
Weedon Scott saw and nodded.
Weedon Scott strode half across the room toward him, at the same time calling him.
Weedon Scott was in truth this thumb.
Weedon Scott waved a last good-bye.
We have had the most weird experiences since we were landed here.
We live here together always in my house.
we look?  God could not have been so cruel as to take my little girl  roughly by the shoulder.
We must leave room for the thumb and the fingers of the left hand.
We must not give ourselves time to think, for in that direction lies madness.
We should have liked so much to have seen and thanked our host.
What a perfect creature!  There could be naught of cruelty or baseness beneath that godlike exterior.
What could it mean?  Who could it be?  Some new creature of torture and destruction, doubtless.
What do you make of it,  Professor Archimedes Q.
Whatever his decision, the apes accept it as final, and return to their occupations satisfied.
What good will he be to the tribe?  None; only a burden.
What if the trail of the gods led out on that side?  It never entered his head.
What of his bushwhacking and waylaying tactics, the young dogs were afraid to run by themselves.
What Tarzan did they tried to do also, but he alone originated and became proficient.
What though Kala was a fierce and hideous ape!  To Tarzan she had been kind, she had been beautiful.
What was his god's was to be defended against all the world--even to the extent of biting other gods.
What was once my dear little girl shall not lie alone and friendless in the awful jungle.
What was that?  His quick ear had caught a faint but unfamiliar sound.
What will our friends think of us, who may chance to be upon the street and witness our  Mr.
When all the adult males had joined in the thin line of circling dancers the attack commenced.
When a steamer arrived, the men of the fort made it a point always to come down to the bank and see the fun.
When at last he came to a stop, he gave one last agonised yell and then a long, whimpering wail.
When Clayton heard the report of the firearm he fell into an agony of fear and apprehension.
When completed he had a rather snug little nest, to which he carried their blankets and some of the lighter luggage.
When D'Arnot had finished the diary the two men sat in silence for some minutes.
When D'Arnot told me what it was and what it meant to you I returned to the jungle and recovered it.
When he appeared amongst them, there was always a squabble.
When he arrived he found the entire tribe gathered jabbering about the dead body of his slain mother.
When he broke through into the ring, Beauty Smith was just in the act of delivering another kick.
When he could no longer endure, he would get up and stalk determinedly away from them.
When he died they threw him overboard also, though there were those among them who wanted to keep the corpse on board.
When he dozed despite himself, the whimpering and snarling of the dogs aroused him.
When he grew tired, he found his way back to the cave and slept.
When he overtook White Fang, he reached down and by the nape of the neck lifted him clear of the water.
When he received this appointment he was both elated and appalled.
When he remembered locality, it was too late.
When he saw or heard her coming, he got up and walked off.
When he saw White Fang's eyes beginning to glaze, he knew beyond doubt that the fight was lost.
When his food was shoved in to him, he growled like a wild animal.
When his master had gone out, White Fang turned loose and tore around the pen, trying to get at the men outside.
When Kulonga awoke he found that his bow and arrows had disappeared.
When Mit-sah cried out his command for the team to stop, White Fang obeyed.
When Mit-sah told the story in camp, Grey Beaver ordered meat to be given to White Fang.
When morning came and a dim light pervaded the lair, he again sought after the source of the remotely familiar sounds.
When Professor Archimedes Q.
When restoratives had been applied several of the men regained consciousness, and then the whole story was told.
When she saw him she hurried forward to meet him.
When she snarled her displeasure, the old leader would whirl on the three-year-old.
When she turned and tried to drag him back into the bush's shelter, he pulled her away from it and on into the open.
When Tantor trumpeted, the great ape scurried with his fellows high among the trees of the second terrace.
When Tarzan came in sight of the beach where stood his cabin, a strange and unusual spectacle met his vision.
When Tarzan killed he more often smiled than scowled, and smiles are the foundation of beauty.
When the beating was over White Fang was sick.
When the canoe touched the shore, White Fang lay whimpering and motionless, waiting the will of Grey Beaver.
When the gods administered punishment they stood on their legs.
When the master appeared, all other beings ceased to exist so far as White Fang was concerned.
When the steamboat arrived at Dawson, White Fang went ashore.
When the two boats were beached upon the silvery sand it was a strange assortment of humanity that clambered ashore.
When they called, he came.
When they came near with their ominous hands, he got up.
When they commanded him to go, he went away hurriedly.
When they had all come Tarzan turned toward them.
When they had finished their breakfast Tarzan went to her bower and recovered his knife.
When the young leader lay in the snow and moved no more, One Eye stalked over to the she-wolf.
When they saw him they rushed for him.
When they threatened, he cowered down.
When they walked, he got out of their way.
When this had been done a few times, he learned the law and after that observed it.
When Weedon and Maud had first approached him, he growled warningly and looked malignant.
When White Fang struggled, Cherokee was content merely to hold on.
When you are well I shall take you back to your people.
When you see this you will know that it is for you and that Tarzan of the Apes loves you.
where a mighty wall of roaring flames shut out the view.
Wherefore is there in him little dog and much wolf.
Where the river swung in against precipitous bluffs, he climbed the high mountains behind.
Whereupon he arose, and, bending a scathing glance upon the still prostrate form of Mr.
Whereupon he sat up and ki-yi'd louder than ever.
Whether out of compassion for them, or in furtherance of his own self-interests, it would be difficult to say.
which has pierced the lungs.
which have just transpired.
While, as for getting him off his feet, there was no dog among them capable of doing the trick.
While Baseek had been growing weaker with age, White Fang had been growing stronger with youth.
While Fang fought willingly enough, but he was outclassed.
While he smelled it he kept his eyes on the god.
While he was struggling to his feet the young dog sank teeth twice into his shoulder.
While she accepted him because it was the mandate of the gods, that was no reason that she should leave him in peace.
While the remains of Jim Hall were discovered on a dozen mountain-sides by greedy claimants for blood- money.
While this went on, and Beauty Smith continued to kick White Fang, there was a commotion in the crowd.
Whining with eagerness, he followed back from the river bank and in among the trees.
White Fang became hated by man and dog.
White Fang began by ignoring him.
White Fang bristled, but waited.
White Fang, bristling silently, half-crouching as he rose, sank back and watched the hostile act repeated.
White Fang burst into no furious outcry.
White Fang came near to him and watched.
White Fang came to him, not with a great bound, yet quickly.
White Fang came to look forward eagerly to the gathering of the men around his pen.
White Fang came upon him unexpectedly.
White Fang caught glimpses of it disappearing amongst the trees.
White Fang ceased only when he had tired himself out.
White Fang could hear Grey Beaver's squaw taking part in the search, and Mit-sah, who was Grey Beaver's son.
White Fang could scarcely realise that he was free.
White Fang could see nothing dangerous in that.
White Fang crawled slowly, cringing and grovelling in the abjectness of his abasement and submission.
White Fang crouched down, and backed away, bristling, showing his fangs, his eyes malignant with menace.
White Fang darted in and out unscathed, while Cherokee's wounds increased.
White Fang did not give the alarm by barking.
White Fang did not need the encouragement.
White Fang did not repeat his attack on the foot.
White Fang did not run away, though he was allowed to remain loose, because he liked this new god.
White Fang did not wait.
White Fang emerged from the car.
White Fang enjoyed it all.
White-Fang even bristled up to him and walked stiff-legged, but Lip-lip ignored the challenge.
White Fang experienced dual feelings.
White Fang felt fear mounting in him again.
White Fang flattened his ears ingratiatingly, but remained where he was, making no attempt to approach.
White Fang followed and lay down beside her.
White Fang followed closely at the master's heels.
White Fang gazed at him wistfully.
White Fang growled and growled with insistent warning.
White Fang had already scented it.
White Fang had ceased eating, lost heart, and allowed every dog of the team to thrash him.
White Fang had come straight from the Wild, where the weak perish early and shelter is vouchsafed to none.
White Fang had done his work.
White Fang had never been very demonstrative.
White Fang had observed closely the chicken-yards and the habits of the chickens.
White Fang had practically ceased struggling.
White Fang, hanging limply, continued to cry.
White Fang heard it first, and he was bristling with recognition while Grey Beaver still nodded stupidly.
White Fang hesitated.
White Fang himself began to grow aware of it, though in his consciousness he knew not what love was.
White Fang, however, was beginning to tolerate this act.
White Fang knew how to make it and when to make it.
White Fang knew nothing about fire.
White Fang knew the law well: _to oppress the weak and obey the strong_.
White Fang knew this point.
White Fang knew why he was being beaten.
White Fang leaped clear, and, as the man struggled to rise, was in again with the slashing fangs.
White Fang learned rapidly the ways of the camp.
White Fang, listening to the wordy war and watching the angry gestures, knew that his act was justified.
White Fang looked on at first.
White Fang looked on with a wondering eye.
White Fang looked up at the fort, at the same time bristling and growling.
White Fang made several ineffectual efforts to get up.
White Fang never raided a chicken-roost again.
White Fang no longer hesitated.
White Fang, on the verge of retreat, would have retreated, leaving the meat to him.
White Fang remained on the Yukon, the property of a man more than half mad and all brute.
White Fang resisted it.
White Fang sat down in the shadow of a birch and whimpered softly.
White Fang saw his mother taken aboard Three Eagles' canoe, and tried to follow her.
White Fang scanned him apprehensively when he came out.
White Fang scarcely knew what happened.
White Fang, seeming to sum up strength in all his qualities, nevertheless suffered from one besetting weakness.
White Fang sensed the coming calamity, even before there was tangible evidence of it.
White Fang's feel of Beauty Smith was bad.
White Fang's gods were always hunting animals.
White Fang shrank together and grew tense as he crouched under it.
White Fang, sliding by in quest of meat, stopped and began to eat the chips.
White Fang slunk into camp one evening and dropped down with a sigh of content.
White Fang's meat, an' he's dead-O.
White Fang snarled no warning, but his hair bristled as he made his silent and deadly rush.
White Fang, snarling fiercely, scrambled backward for several yards, while Matt stooped and investigated his leg.
White Fang's natural impulse was to eat it.
White Fang sniffed the puppy curiously, whereupon Kiche rushed upon him, gashing his face a second time.
White Fang soon learned that very few of these gods--not more than a dozen--lived at this place.
White Fang sprang clear, just in time to escape the descending blow.
White Fang sprang in a rage at the throat of the offending horse, but was checked by the master's voice.
White Fang sprang to his feet and tore wildly around, trying to shake off the bull-dog's body.
White Fang's snarling began with the movement, and increased as the movement approached its culmination.
White Fang's suspicious eyes followed every movement.
White Fang's teeth drove into the scrawny throat.
White Fang still danced on, dodging and doubling, leaping in and out, and ever inflicting damage.
White Fang's tongue went out, he knew not why, and he licked the puppy's face.
White Fang stood before him, growling fiercely.
White Fang's was a service of duty and awe, but not of love.
White Fang took kindly to the work.
White Fang trembled, waiting for the punishment to fall upon him.
White Fang trembled with fear, and though the impulse came to crawl out of his hiding-place, he resisted it.
White Fang tried the trick once too often.
White Fang tried to face it.
White Fang turned to the love-master's wife.
White Fang waited an hour.
White Fang was awed.
White Fang was bitter and implacable.
White Fang was delighted with his mother's freedom.
White Fang was disinclined to desert him.
White Fang was furious.
White Fang was howling as dogs howl when their masters lie dead.
White Fang was in a rage, wickedly making his attack on the most vulnerable spot.
White Fang was in Grey Beaver's camp when Beauty Smith first visited it.
White Fang was in his way.
White Fang was in splendid condition.
White Fang was in the process of finding himself.
White Fang was suspicious.
White Fang was too terrible for any of them to face single- handed.
White Fang was torn by conflicting feelings, impulses.
White Fang was very wise.
White Fang was wise.
White Fang watched him.
White Fang watched the club after the manner of a caged lion watching the whip of its trainer.
White Fang went wild with rage.
White Fang whined as he watched the operation.
White Fang, who had never known sickness in his life, became sick.
White Fang would not permit it.
Who are you?  Can you read this language?   D'Arnot seized the pencil--then he stopped.
Who else among you has ever killed one of Numa's people?  Tarzan is mightiest amongst you for Tarzan is no ape.
Why, it could not even find food alone, and more than twelve moons had passed since Kala had come upon it.
Why, Sabor, single handed, could exterminate a thousand  D'Arnot laughed.
Why should he not hate them?  He never asked himself the question.
Why, then, this hesitancy! Once more he essayed the effort, but a qualm of nausea overwhelmed him.
will be glaring at him to-night, and at your comrade Lieutenant D'Arnot.
William Cecil Clayton had imagined.
Wisconsin which her mother left her.
With a bound Tarzan sprang into the trees and disappeared.
With a cry of rage and pain the she-ape turned upon her tormentor.
With a cry she sprang to her feet and turned to face her end.
With a flaming brand in each hand, he sprang to the edge of the fire.
With a frightful roar the great beast sprang among the assemblage.
With a horrid scream Kala plunged forward upon her face before the astonished members of her tribe.
With a human being I have never spoken, except once with Jane Porter, by signs.
With a jolt it stopped before the cottage, and a black-haired giant leaped out to run up onto the porch.
With a nervous, shrinking paw, One Eye stretched out the porcupine to its full length and turned it over on its back.
With a snarl she sprang upon One Ear.
With back-laid ears she looked straight into the eyes of Tarzan of the Apes and sounded her fierce, shrill challenge.
With condescension he accepted their condescension.
With equal heartlessness they disposed of their own dead and dying.
With frightened shrieks they wheeled once more and plunged on in their efforts to escape.
With him came the first bull-dog that had ever entered the Klondike.
With him were other boys.
With his knife he severed many strips of meat from Horta's carcass, but he did not cook them.
With his one eye the elder saw the opportunity.
With his rifle, in the broad daylight, it might be possible for him to awe the wolves and save the dog.
With infinite solicitude Professor Porter wiggled his right arm--joy! It was intact.
With little or no effort he succeeded, and the great bulk rolled inertly upon the turf before him--the ape was dead.
With low moans, she sat cuddling the body to her; nor did Kerchak attempt to molest her.
With man it is different.
With night came horror.
Without a pause he rushed into the house.
Without a word Tarzan of the Apes cut the bonds which held the Frenchman.
Without warning, the love-master disappeared.
With streaming coat tails and shiny silk hat Professor Archimedes Q.
With swelling chest he narrated the glories of his adventure and exhibited the spoils of conquest.
With Tantor, the elephant, he made friends.
With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair, but suddenly he relaxed and dropped back, smiling.
With the arrival of a steamer the fun began.
With the bursting open of the door, the noise of their howling had increased tremendously.
With the death of the babe his fit of demoniacal rage passed as suddenly as it had seized him.
With the exception of Collie, all things went well with White Fang.
With the exception of the children, the whole family was gathered about the surgeon to hear his verdict.
With the first slash, Baseek's right ear was ripped into ribbons.
With them it was snap and slash and get away, snap and slash and get away.
With the overthrow of Lip-lip, White Fang could have become leader of the pack.
With the return of the love-master, White Fang's recovery was rapid.
With the simpler creatures, good and bad are things simply understood.
With the words he raised his pick above his head, and, with a mighty blow, he buried the point in Snipes' brain.
With this triple killing his main troubles with dogs ceased.
With unremitting zeal he had worked to beautify the interior of the cabin.
Women and children were carrying more sticks and branches to Grey Beaver.
Work must be our salvation.
wouldn't stand for it.
Woven into her being was the memory of countless crimes he and his had perpetrated against her ancestry.
years, and God alone knows how hard I have tried to be 'human' for  Another old hand stole up from Mr.
Ye saved my life once, and in return I'm goin' to spare yours, but that's all I can do.
Yes, that was more than likely.
Yes, there was Numa, the lion, even now, stalking the white man a dozen paces to the right.
Yet a bad effect was produced.
Yet all were more like skeletons than full-bodied wolves.
Yet fear was in him.
Yet he knew that it was not permitted him to pursue and drag them down.
Yet he quickly worked it out that all of them belonged to the master.
Yet his conclusions were as sharp and distinct as those achieved by men.
Yet it was given him to discover a third way.
yet not kill them here.
Yet of the trap and of bondage he knew nothing.
Yet the failure of it accelerated his development.
Yet the warm blood of the rabbit tasted good in his mouth.
Yet they never replied in kind, never defended themselves against her.
Yet this endurance he achieved.
Yet White Fang was never effusively affectionate.
You are a gentleman, and gentlemen do not kill in cold  to himself.
You are Jane Porter, I saw it in your letter.
You are too good a businessman for that.
You do not know him as I do.
You have accused me of cowardice.
You have insinuated that you ran only to overtake me, not to escape the clutches of the lion.
You have saved my life, and all that I have is yours.
You jes' shut up now, an' go to sleep, an' you'll be all hunkydory in the mornin'.
You knew the one best way to force me to marry you, without seeming to force me.
Young life had little chance in such a famine.
Your stomach's sour, that's  The men slept, breathing heavily, side by side, under the one covering.
You see, they're sure of us, only they know they've got to wait to get us.
you that's something I ain't worked out for myself.
You, Tom, and Bill, take a couple    The men all looked up angrily.
you were advancing a most logical argument in substantiation of your theory that camp lay directly south of us.
